Chief Justice Roberts, President Carter, President Clinton, President Bush, President Obama, fellow Americans, and people of the world: thank you.
We, the citizens of America, are now joined in a great national effort to rebuild our country and to restore its promise for all of our people.
Together, we will determine the course of America and the world for years to come.
We will face challenges. We will confront hardships. But we will get the job done.
Every four years, we gather on these steps to carry out the orderly and peaceful transfer of power, and we are grateful to President Obama and First Lady Michelle Obama for their gracious aid throughout this transition. They have been magnificent.
Today’s ceremony, however, has very special meaning. Because today we are not merely transferring power from one Administration to another, or from one party to another – but we are transferring power from Washington, D.C. and giving it back to you, the American People.
For too long, a small group in our nation’s Capital has reaped the rewards of government while the people have borne the cost.
Washington flourished – but the people did not share in its wealth.
Politicians prospered – but the jobs left, and the factories closed.
The establishment protected itself, but not the citizens of our country.
Their victories have not been your victories; their triumphs have not been your triumphs; and while they celebrated in our nation’s Capital, there was little to celebrate for struggling families all across our land.
That all changes – starting right here, and right now, because this moment is your moment: it belongs to you.
It belongs to everyone gathered here today and everyone watching all across America.
This is your day. This is your celebration.
And this, the United States of America, is your country.
What truly matters is not which party controls our government, but whether our government is controlled by the people.
January 20th 2017, will be remembered as the day the people became the rulers of this nation again.
The forgotten men and women of our country will be forgotten no longer.
Everyone is listening to you now.
You came by the tens of millions to become part of a historic movement the likes of which the world has never seen before.
At the center of this movement is a crucial conviction: that a nation exists to serve its citizens.
Americans want great schools for their children, safe neighborhoods for their families, and good jobs for themselves.
These are the just and reasonable demands of a righteous public.
But for too many of our citizens, a different reality exists: Mothers and children trapped in poverty in our inner cities; rusted-out factories scattered like tombstones across the landscape of our nation; an education system, flush with cash, but which leaves our young and beautiful students deprived of knowledge; and the crime and gangs and drugs that have stolen too many lives and robbed our country of so much unrealized potential.
This American carnage stops right here and stops right now.
We are one nation – and their pain is our pain. Their dreams are our dreams; and their success will be our success. We share one heart, one home, and one glorious destiny.
The oath of office I take today is an oath of allegiance to all Americans.
For many decades, we’ve enriched foreign industry at the expense of American industry;
Subsidized the armies of other countries while allowing for the very sad depletion of our military;
We’ve defended other nation’s borders while refusing to defend our own;
And spent trillions of dollars overseas while America’s infrastructure has fallen into disrepair and decay.
We’ve made other countries rich while the wealth, strength, and confidence of our country has disappeared over the horizon.
One by one, the factories shuttered and left our shores, with not even a thought about the millions upon millions of American workers left behind.
The wealth of our middle class has been ripped from their homes and then redistributed across the entire world.
But that is the past. And now we are looking only to the future.
We assembled here today are issuing a new decree to be heard in every city, in every foreign capital, and in every hall of power.
From this day forward, a new vision will govern our land.
From this moment on, it’s going to be America First.
Every decision on trade, on taxes, on immigration, on foreign affairs, will be made to benefit American workers and American families.
We must protect our borders from the ravages of other countries making our products, stealing our companies, and destroying our jobs. Protection will lead to great prosperity and strength.
I will fight for you with every breath in my body – and I will never, ever let you down.
America will start winning again, winning like never before.
We will bring back our jobs. We will bring back our borders. We will bring back our wealth. And we will bring back our dreams.
We will build new roads, and highways, and bridges, and airports, and tunnels, and railways all across our wonderful nation.
We will get our people off of welfare and back to work – rebuilding our country with American hands and American labor.
We will follow two simple rules: Buy American and Hire American.
We will seek friendship and goodwill with the nations of the world – but we do so with the understanding that it is the right of all nations to put their own interests first.
We do not seek to impose our way of life on anyone, but rather to let it shine as an example for everyone to follow.
We will reinforce old alliances and form new ones – and unite the civilized world against Radical Islamic Terrorism, which we will eradicate completely from the face of the Earth.
At the bedrock of our politics will be a total allegiance to the United States of America, and through our loyalty to our country, we will rediscover our loyalty to each other.
When you open your heart to patriotism, there is no room for prejudice.
The Bible tells us, “how good and pleasant it is when God’s people live together in unity.”
We must speak our minds openly, debate our disagreements honestly, but always pursue solidarity.
When America is united, America is totally unstoppable.
There should be no fear – we are protected, and we will always be protected.
We will be protected by the great men and women of our military and law enforcement and, most importantly, we are protected by God.
Finally, we must think big and dream even bigger.
In America, we understand that a nation is only living as long as it is striving.
We will no longer accept politicians who are all talk and no action – constantly complaining but never doing anything about it.
The time for empty talk is over.
Now arrives the hour of action.
Do not let anyone tell you it cannot be done. No challenge can match the heart and fight and spirit of America.
We will not fail. Our country will thrive and prosper again.
We stand at the birth of a new millennium, ready to unlock the mysteries of space, to free the Earth from the miseries of disease, and to harness the energies, industries and technologies of tomorrow.
A new national pride will stir our souls, lift our sights, and heal our divisions.
It is time to remember that old wisdom our soldiers will never forget: that whether we are black or brown or white, we all bleed the same red blood of patriots, we all enjoy the same glorious freedoms, and we all salute the same great American Flag.
And whether a child is born in the urban sprawl of Detroit or the windswept plains of Nebraska, they look up at the same night sky, they fill their heart with the same dreams, and they are infused with the breath of life by the same almighty Creator.
So to all Americans, in every city near and far, small and large, from mountain to mountain, and from ocean to ocean, hear these words:
You will never be ignored again.
Your voice, your hopes, and your dreams, will define our American destiny. And your courage and goodness and love will forever guide us along the way.
Together, We Will Make America Strong Again.
We Will Make America Wealthy Again.
We Will Make America Proud Again.
We Will Make America Safe Again.
And, Yes, Together, We Will Make America Great Again. Thank you, God Bless You, And God Bless America.
Thank you.
In 22 days, we are going to win the state of Wisconsin and we are going to win the White House.
Early voting is underway, so make sure to send in your absentee ballots.
Together, we are going to deliver real change that puts America First.
We are going to renegotiate our terrible trade deals, end illegal immigration, stop the massive inflow of refugees, reduce surging crime, cut taxes and regulations, lift the restrictions on American energy, end common core, and repeal and replace the disaster known as Obamacare.
Your jobs will come back under a Trump Administration. Your incomes will go up under a Trump Administration. Your taxes will go way down under a Trump Administration. Your companies won't be leaving Wisconsin under a Trump Administration.
We are also going to end government corruption.
Hillary Clinton is the most corrupt person ever to run for President.
Newly-released FBI documents made public today reveal just how deep the corruption goes. The under-Secretary of State, Patrick Kennedy, pressured the FBI to un-classify emails from Hillary's illegal server. In other words, the State Department was trying to cover-up Hillary's crime of sending classified information on a server our enemies could easily access by trying to reverse the classification.
This is a criminal conspiracy – a conspiracy that included Hillary's deleting and bleaching of 33,000 emails, the disappearance of 13 phones, 2 boxes of email evidence gone missing, and the destruction of laptops in a secret deal with the FBI.
Remember, also, that Hillary lied under oath to Congress saying she had never sent or received classified information on her insecure sever, and pretended not to know that the letter "C" meant confidential information that was classified. Hillary then told the FBI she couldn't remember 39 times, and then, in written testimony last week under oath, said she couldn't remember another 21 times.
We are witnessing a criminal enterprise that has turned our government into a vehicle for the Clinton's personal profit at your expense.
But it gets even worse.
The FBI documents show that Under-Secretary of State Patrick Kennedy made the request for altering classification as part of a "quid pro quo." This is felony corruption. Under-Secretary Kennedy needs to resign.
Clinton cronies have sacrificed your security, your family's safety, and your country's safety as though it meant nothing at all.
This is magnitudes worse than Watergate. And we're going to put an end to it on November 8th.
But there's still more. Another series of emails shows top officials in the Clinton campaign scheming to take massive sums of money from foreign lobbyists. One of the emails from a top Hillary official said, quote, "take the money!!" with two exclamation points. This is money bundled by people registered as lobbyists on behalf of foreign governments.
Remember, we are competing in a rigged election – the media is trying to rig the election by giving credence to false stories that have no validity and making it front page news, only to poison the minds of the American voters. The media is an extension of the Clinton Campaign, as WikiLeaks proved – Hillary even got the questions and answers in advance of a major debate.
A new report from the Center for Public Integrity shows that 96% of so-called journalists and reporters who donated this cycle gave their money to Hillary Clinton. They even want to try and rig the election at the polling booths, where so many cities are corrupt and voter fraud is all too common.
The following comes straight from Pew Research.
Then there is the issue of illegal immigrants voting. The following comes from a 2014 report from the Washington Post. The article was entitled: "could non-citizens decide the November election?" Here are some excerpts.
Our system is also rigged by the donors, giving hundreds of millions to Hillary Clinton's campaign.
The reason Hillary Clinton pushes for NAFTA, or the Trans-Pacific Partnership, and for completely open borders, is because her international donors control her every move.
If we let the Clinton Cartel run this government, history will record that 2017 was the year America lost its independence.
We will not let that happen.
It is time to drain the swamp in Washington, D.C.
That is why I am proposing a package of ethics reforms to make our government honest once again.
When Bill Clinton came into office, he signed an executive order saying if you work for the White House or a federal agency, you can't lobby the government for 5 years after you leave. But then, President Clinton did what the Clintons always do – he rigged the system on his way out. Clinton lifted the executive order so the Clintons and their cronies like John Podesta could start raking in cash.
So, here is what I am announcing tonight. First: I am going to re-institute a 5-year ban on all executive branch officials lobbying the government for 5 years after they leave government service. I am going to ask Congress to pass this ban into law so that it cannot be lifted by executive order.
Second: I am going to ask Congress to institute its own 5-year ban on lobbying by former members of Congress and their staffs.
Third: I am going to expand the definition of lobbyist so we close all the loopholes that former government officials use by labeling themselves consultants and advisors when we all know they are lobbyists.
Fourth: I am going to issue a lifetime ban against senior executive branch officials lobbying on behalf of a foreign government.
And Fifth: I am going to ask Congress to pass a campaign finance reform that prevents registered foreign lobbyists from raising money in American elections.
Not only will we end our government corruption, but we will end the economic stagnation.
My plan for the economy can be summed up in three simple words: jobs, jobs, jobs.
At the center of my plan will be fixing our terrible trade deals.
47 million Americans are in poverty and 45 million Americans are on Food Stamps.
We have nearly an $800 billion annual trade deficit in goods with the world, and the worst so-called recovery since the Great Depression.
It's the Clintons who gave us NAFTA, and the Clintons who gave us China's entry into the World Trade Organization.
Briggs & Stratton has cut thousands of Wisconsin manufacturing jobs and moved them to China.
GE Healthcare recently closed its Milwaukee location and shipped the jobs to Mexico.
Johnson Controls shuttered its plants in Milwaukee and West Allis and moved the jobs to Mexico and China.
The list goes on and on.
We are living through the greatest jobs theft in the history of the world.
A Trump Administration is going to renegotiate NAFTA, stand up to China, and stop the jobs from leaving our country.
As part of our plan to bring back our jobs, we are going to lower our business tax from 35 percent to 15 percent.
We will be a rich nation once again.
But to be a rich country, we must also be a safe country.
National Security begins at the border.
Speaking in secret to a foreign bank Hillary Clinton said her dream is for totally "open trade and open borders."
By "open trade," she means foreign countries can cheat us out of millions of jobs and trillions of dollars.
By "open borders," she means totally unlimited immigration.
In a secret speech to Goldman Sachs, she said citizens who want to control immigration are "Un-American."
So Hillary thinks most of the country is either deplorable, irredeemable, un-American, racist, or basement dwellers supporting Bernie Sanders.
Hillary's plan includes an open border with the Middle East – meaning generations of radicalism and terrorism spreading and growing within our shores.
So let me state this as clearly as I can. If I'm elected President I am going to keep Radical Islamic Terrorists out of our country.
We will also stop the crisis of illegal immigration.
A Trump Administration will secure and defend our borders. And yes, we will build a wall.
We have the first-ever endorsement from our ICE and Border Patrol officers.
As Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton allowed thousands of criminal aliens to be released because their home countries wouldn't take them back.
The ICE officers described Hillary's proposal as, quote, the most radical immigration proposal in U.S. history." Here is a summary of the Hillary plan:
--Support for Sanctuary Cities
--Social Security, Medicare and lifetime welfare for illegal immigrants by making them all citizens
--Obamacare for illegal immigrants
--No deportation of visa overstays
--Expanding catch-and-release on the border
--Expanding President Obama's unconstitutional executive amnesty, including instant work permits for millions of illegal workers
--Freeing even more criminal aliens by expanding Obama's non-enforcement directives
--A 550% increase in Syrian refugees
Either we win this election, or we lose the country.
Under a Trump Administration, it's going to be America First.
Here are some of the amazing things we are going to do for our country starting in 2017:
We are going to have the biggest tax cut since Ronald Reagan; eliminate every unnecessary regulation; defend religious liberty; provide school choice to every low-income child in America; rebuild our depleted military and take care of our vets; support the men and women of law enforcement; repeal and replace Obamacare; save the 2nd amendment; and appoint Justices to the Supreme Court who will uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States.
You have 22 days to make every dream you ever dreamed of for your country come true.
On November 8th, the arrogance of Washington D.C. will come face to face with the righteous verdict of the American voter.
I am going to fight for every citizen, of every background, from every stretch of this nation.
I'm going to fight for every child living in poverty. I'm going to fight for every mom who lost her child to illegal immigration, and drugs and gang violence.
I'm going to fight for every community whose jobs and dreams have been ripped out and shipped to other countries.
I'm going to fight for every person in this country who believes government should serve the people – not the donors.
And I am going to fight to bring us all together as Americans.
Imagine what our country could accomplish if we started working together as One People, under One God, saluting One American Flag.
You're going to look back at this rally for the rest of your life. You're going to remember this day. This is a movement like you've never seen before. You're going to look back at this election, and say this is by far the most important vote you've ever cast for anyone at any time.
Once again, we are going to have a government of, by and for the people.
We Will Make America Wealthy Again.
We Will Make America Strong Again.
We Will Make America Safe Again.
And We Will Make America Great Again.
Real change also means getting rid of the corruption in Washington.
As you have heard, it was just announced yesterday that the FBI is reopening their investigation into the criminal and illegal conduct of Hillary Clinton.
This is the biggest political scandal since Watergate, and it is everybody's deepest hope that justice, at last, can be delivered.
Hillary has nobody but herself to blame for her mounting legal troubles.
Her criminal action was willful, deliberate, intentional and purposeful.
Hillary set-up an illegal server for the obvious purpose of shielding her criminal conduct from public disclosure.
She set-up this illegal server knowing full well that her actions put our national security at risk, and put the safety and security of your children at risk.
To further cover-up her crimes, she bleached and deleted 33,000 emails after a Congressional Subpoena, made 13 phones disappear – some with a hammer, lied to Congress under oath, lied to the FBI, and then two boxes of email evidence went mysteriously missing.
She even pretended not to know that the letter "C" meant confidential information that was classified.
As the recent release of a memo from one of Bill Clinton's closest associates demonstrates, the Clintons have turned the government into a scheme for personal profit.
The Clintons even saw the deadly disaster in Haiti as an opportunity to cash-in.
The WikiLeaks revelations have revealed a degree of corruption at the highest levels of our government like nothing we've ever seen before – including a candidate who boasts to donors about having a public position for the voters, and a private position for Wall Street.
Hillary put the office of Secretary of State up for sale and, if she ever got the chance, she'd put the Oval Office up for sale too.
Hillary should have been convicted long ago.
That the legal process has been taking this long is incredible.
And now it's reported that the Department of Justice is fighting the FBI – that's because the Department of Justice is trying to protect her.
97% of Department of Justice employees' presidential contributions went to Hillary Clinton.
There are those, and I happen to be one of them, who think Hillary offered Lorretta Lynch a reappointment as Attorney General.
Perhaps that was what Bill Clinton was doing in the secret meeting on the tarmac in Arizona.
He said it was to play golf, but he never played, and it was over 100 degrees.
This is what we mean when we call it a rigged system.
Now the Attorney General is fighting the FBI for doing what was right – but what should have been done many months ago.
Perhaps, through this other investigation, they found what may be some of the 33,000 missing and deleted emails Hillary tried desperately to destroy, even going so far as to use digital bleach.
The stakes on November 8th could not be higher.
A vote for Hillary is vote a to surrender our government to public corruption, graft and cronyism that threatens the very foundations of our Constitutional system.
What makes us exceptional is that we are a nation of laws, and that we are all equal under those laws – Hillary's corruption shreds that foundational principle.
Public Corruption is a grave and profound threat to a Democracy.
Government corruption spreads outward, like a cancer, and infects the operations of government itself.
If the corruption is not removed, then the people are not able to have faith in their government.
It deadens and saps the spirit of civic participation.
Corruption decays our trust in institutions and our legal system.
When the outcome is fixed, when the system is rigged, people lose hope. They detach. Our society becomes unplugged and unhinged.
When the powerful can get away with anything, because they have the money and the connections to rig the system, then the laws lose their moral authority.
Hillary believes money and power – not truth and justice – should rule the day.
As FDR once said, government by organized money is just as dangerous as government by organized mob.
This is what we often see in Third World countries – where the governments are often run by a small handful of corrupt people for their personal enrichment.
Corruption is corrosive to every institution of government, and it must be stopped.
Restoring honesty to our government, and the rule of law to our society, will be my highest priority as President.
We must save the America.
That is why My Contract With The American Voter begins with a plan to end government corruption and take our country back from the special interests.
I want the entire corrupt Washington establishment to hear and to heed the words I am about to say.
When we win on November 8th, We Are Going To Washington, D.C. And We Are Going To DRAIN THE SWAMP.
Thank you very much. Mr. Speaker, Mr. Vice President, Members of Congress, the First Lady of the United States, and citizens of America: Tonight, as we mark the conclusion of our celebration of Black History Month, we are reminded of our Nation's path towards civil rights and the work that still remains to be done. Recent threats targeting Jewish community centers and vandalism of Jewish cemeteries, as well as last week's shooting in Kansas City, remind us that while we may be a nation divided on policies, we are a country that stands united in condemning hate and evil in all of its very ugly forms.
Each American generation passes the torch of truth, liberty, and justice in an unbroken chain, all the way down to the present. That torch is now in our hands, and we will use it to light up the world. I am here tonight to deliver a message of unity and strength, and it is a message deeply delivered from my heart. A new chapter of American greatness is now beginning. A new national pride is sweeping across our Nation. And a new surge of optimism is placing impossible dreams firmly within our grasp.
What we are witnessing today is the renewal of the American spirit. Our allies will find that America is once again ready to lead. All the nations of the world—friend or foe—will find that America is strong, America is proud, and America is free.
In 9 years, the United States will celebrate the 250th anniversary of our founding: 250 years since the day we declared our independence. It will be one of the great milestones in the history of the world. But what will America look like as we reach our 250th year? What kind of country will we leave for our children?
I will not allow the mistakes of recent decades past to define the course of our future. For too long, we've watched our middle class shrink as we've exported our jobs and wealth to foreign countries. We've financed and built one global project after another, but ignored the fates of our children in the inner cities of Chicago, Baltimore, Detroit, and so many other places throughout our land.
We've defended the borders of other nations, while leaving our own borders wide open for anyone to cross and for drugs to pour in at a now unprecedented rate. And we've spent trillions and trillions of dollars overseas, while our infrastructure at home has so badly crumbled.
Then, in 2016, the Earth shifted beneath our feet. The rebellion started as a quiet protest, spoken by families of all colors and creeds, families who just wanted a fair shot for their children and a fair hearing for their concerns.
But then the quiet voices became a loud chorus, as thousands of citizens now spoke out together, from cities small and large, all across our country. Finally, the chorus became an earthquake, and the people turned out by the tens of millions, and they were all united by one very simple, but crucial demand: that America must put its own citizens first. Because only then can we truly make America great again.
Dying industries will come roaring back to life. Heroic veterans will get the care they so desperately need. Our military will be given the resources its brave warriors so richly deserve. Crumbling infrastructure will be replaced with new roads, bridges, tunnels, airports, and railways gleaming across our very, very beautiful land. Our terrible drug epidemic will slow down and, ultimately, stop. And our neglected inner cities will see a rebirth of hope, safety, and opportunity. Above all else, we will keep our promises to the American people.  Thank you.
It's been a little over a month since my Inauguration, and I want to take this moment to update the Nation on the progress I've made in keeping those promises.
Since my election, Ford, Fiat Chrysler, General Motors, Sprint, Softbank, Lockheed, Intel, Walmart, and many others have announced that they will invest billions and billions of dollars in the United States and will create tens of thousands of new American jobs.
The stock market has gained almost $3 trillion in value since the election on November 8—a record. We've saved taxpayers hundreds of millions of dollars by bringing down the price of fantastic—and it is a fantastic—new F-35 jet fighter, and we'll be saving billions more on contracts all across our Government. We have placed a hiring freeze on nonmilitary and nonessential Federal workers.
We have begun to drain the swamp of government corruption by imposing a 5-year ban on lobbying by executive branch officials and a lifetime ban——thank you. Thank you. And a lifetime ban on becoming lobbyists for a foreign government.
We have undertaken a historic effort to massively reduce job-crushing regulations, creating a deregulation Task Force inside of every Government agency. And we're imposing a new rule which mandates that for every one new regulation, two old regulations must be eliminated. We're going to stop the regulations that threaten the future and livelihood of our great coal miners.
We have cleared the way for the construction of the Keystone and Dakota Access pipelines, thereby creating tens of thousands of jobs. And I've issued a new directive that new American pipelines be made with American steel.
We have withdrawn the United States from the job-killing Trans-Pacific Partnership. And with the help of Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, we have formed a council with our neighbors in Canada to help ensure that women entrepreneurs have access to the networks, markets, and capital they need to start a business and live out their financial dreams.
To protect our citizens, I have directed the Department of Justice to form a Task Force on Reducing Violent Crime. I have further ordered the Departments of Homeland Security and Justice, along with the Department of State and the Director of National Intelligence, to coordinate an aggressive strategy to dismantle the criminal cartels that have spread all across our Nation. We will stop the drugs from pouring into our country and poisoning our youth, and we will expand treatment for those who have become so badly addicted.
At the same time, my administration has answered the pleas of the American people for immigration enforcement and border security. By finally enforcing our immigration laws, we will raise wages, help the unemployed, save billions and billions of dollars, and make our communities safer for everyone. We want all Americans to succeed, but that can't happen in an environment of lawless chaos. We must restore integrity and the rule of law at our borders.
For that reason, we will soon begin the construction of a great, great wall along our southern border. As we speak tonight, we are removing gang members, drug dealers, and criminals that threaten our communities and prey on our very innocent citizens. Bad ones are going out as I speak, and as I've promised throughout the campaign.
To any in Congress who do not believe we should enforce our laws, I would ask you this one question: What would you say to the American family that loses their jobs, their income, or their loved one because America refused to uphold its laws and defend its borders?
Our obligation is to serve, protect, and defend the citizens of the United States. We are also taking strong measures to protect our Nation from radical Islamic terrorism. According to data provided by the Department of Justice, the vast majority of individuals convicted of terrorism and terrorism-related offenses since 9/11 came here from outside of our country. We have seen the attacks at home, from Boston to San Bernardino to the Pentagon, and, yes, even the World Trade Center.
We have seen the attacks in France, in Belgium, in Germany, and all over the world. It is not compassionate, but reckless to allow uncontrolled entry from places where proper vetting cannot occur. Those given the high honor of admission to the United States should support this country and love its people and its values. We cannot allow a beachhead of terrorism to form inside America. We cannot allow our Nation to become a sanctuary for extremists.
That is why my administration has been working on improved vetting procedures, and we will shortly take new steps to keep our Nation safe and to keep those out who will do us harm.
As promised, I directed the Department of Defense to develop a plan to demolish and destroy ISIS, a network of lawless savages that have slaughtered Muslims and Christians, and men and women and children of all faiths and all beliefs. We will work with our allies, including our friends and allies in the Muslim world, to extinguish this vile enemy from our planet.
I have also imposed new sanctions on entities and individuals who support Iran's ballistic missile program and reaffirmed our unbreakable alliance with the State of Israel.
Finally, I have kept my promise to appoint a Justice to the United States Supreme Court, from my list of 20 judges, who will defend our Constitution.
I am greatly honored to have Maureen Scalia with us in the gallery tonight. Thank you, Maureen. Her late, great husband, Antonin Scalia, will forever be a symbol of American justice. To fill his seat, we have chosen Judge Neil Gorsuch, a man of incredible skill and deep devotion to the law. He was confirmed unanimously by the Court of Appeals, and I am asking the Senate to swiftly approve his nomination.
Tonight, as I outline the next steps we must take as a country, we must honestly acknowledge the circumstances we inherited. Ninety-four million Americans are out of the labor force. Over 43 million people are now living in poverty, and over 43 million Americans are on food stamps. More than 1 in 5 people in their prime working years are not working. We have the worst financial recovery in 65 years. In the last 8 years, the past administration has put on more new debt than nearly all of the other Presidents combined.
We've lost more than one-fourth of our manufacturing jobs since NAFTA was approved, and we've lost 60,000 factories since China joined the World Trade Organization in 2001. Our trade deficit in goods with the world last year was nearly $800 billion dollars. And overseas we have inherited a series of tragic foreign policy disasters. Solving these and so many other pressing problems will require us to work past the differences of party. It will require us to tap into the American spirit that has overcome every challenge throughout our long and storied history. But to accomplish our goals at home and abroad, we must restart the engine of the American economy, making it easier for companies to do business in the United States, and much, much harder for companies to leave our country.
Right now American companies are taxed at one of the highest rates anywhere in the world. My economic team is developing historic tax reform that will reduce the tax rate on our companies so they can compete and thrive anywhere and with anyone. It will be a big, big cut.
At the same time, we will provide massive tax relief for the middle class. We must create a level playing field for American companies and our workers—have to do it. Currently, when we ship products out of America, many other countries make us pay very high tariffs and taxes. But when foreign companies ship their products into America, we charge them nothing, or almost nothing.
I just met with officials and workers from a great American company, Harley-Davidson. In fact, they proudly displayed five of their magnificent motorcycles, made in the U.S.A., on the front lawn of the White House.  And they wanted me to ride one, and I said, "No, thank you." 
At our meeting, I asked them, how are you doing, how is business? They said that it's good. I asked them further, how are you doing with other countries, mainly international sales? They told me—without even complaining, because they have been so mistreated for so long that they've become used to it—that it's very hard to do business with other countries because they tax our goods at such a high rate. They said that in the case of another country, they taxed their motorcycles at 100 percent. They weren't even asking for a change. But I am.
I believe strongly in free trade, but it also has to be fair trade. It's been a long time since we had fair trade. The first Republican President, Abraham Lincoln, warned that the "abandonment of the protective policy by the American Government will produce want and ruin among our people." Lincoln was right, and it's time we heeded his advice and his words. I am not going to let America and its great companies and workers be taken advantage of us any longer. They have taken advantage of our country. No longer.
I am going to bring back millions of jobs. Protecting our workers also means reforming our system of legal immigration. The current, outdated system depresses wages for our poorest workers and puts great pressure on taxpayers. Nations around the world like Canada, Australia, and many others, have a merit-based immigration system. It's a basic principle that those seeking to enter a country ought to be able to support themselves financially. Yet, in America, we do not enforce this rule, straining the very public resources that our poorest citizens rely upon. According to the National Academy of Sciences, our current immigration system costs American taxpayers many billions of dollars a year.
Switching away from this current system of lower skilled immigration, and instead adopting a merit-based system, we will have so many more benefits. It will save countless dollars, raise workers' wages, and help struggling families—including immigrant families—enter the middle class. And they will do it quickly, and they will be very, very happy, indeed.
I believe that real and positive immigration reform is possible, as long as we focus on the following goals: to improve jobs and wages for Americans, to strengthen our Nation's security, and to restore respect for our laws. If we are guided by the wellbeing of American citizens, then I believe Republicans and Democrats can work together to achieve an outcome that has eluded our country for decades.
Another Republican President, Dwight D. Eisenhower, initiated the last truly great national infrastructure program—the building of the Interstate Highway System. The time has come for a new program of national rebuilding. America has spent approximately $6 trillion in the Middle East; all the while, our infrastructure at home is crumbling. With this $6 trillion, we could have rebuilt our country twice, and maybe even three times if we had people who had the ability to negotiate. 
To launch our national rebuilding, I will be asking Congress to approve legislation that produces a $1 trillion investment in infrastructure of the United States—financed through both public and private capital—creating millions of new jobs. This effort will be guided by two core principles: buy American and hire American.
Tonight I am also calling on this Congress to repeal and replace Obamacare with reforms that expand choice, increase access, lower costs, and at the same time, provide better health care.
Mandating every American to buy Government-approved health insurance was never the right solution for our country. The way to make health insurance available to everyone is to lower the cost of health insurance, and that is what we are going do.
Obamacare premiums nationwide have increased by double and triple digits. As an example, Arizona went up 116 percent last year alone. Governor Matt Bevin of Kentucky just said Obamacare is failing in his State—the State of Kentucky—and it's unsustainable and collapsing.
One-third of the counties have only one insurer, and they are losing them fast. They are losing them so fast. They are leaving, and many Americans have no choice at all. There's no choice left. Remember when you were told that you could keep your doctor and keep your plan? We now know that all of those promises have been totally broken. Obamacare is collapsing, and we must act decisively to protect all Americans.
Action is not a choice, it is a necessity. So I am calling on all Democrats and Republicans in Congress to work with us to save Americans from this imploding Obamacare disaster.
Here are the principles that should guide the Congress as we move to create a better health care system for all Americans:
First, we should ensure that Americans with preexisting conditions have access to coverage, and that we have a stable transition for Americans currently enrolled in the health care exchanges.
Secondly, we should help Americans purchase their own coverage through the use of tax credits and expanded health savings accounts, but it must be the plan they want, not the plan forced on them by our Government.
Thirdly, we should give our State Governors the resources and flexibility they need with Medicaid to make sure no one is left out.
Fourth, we should implement legal reforms that protect patients and doctors from unnecessary costs that drive up the price of insurance and work to bring down the artificially high price of drugs and bring them down immediately. And finally, the time has come to give Americans the freedom to purchase health insurance across State lines, which will create a truly competitive national marketplace that will bring costs way down and provide far better care. So important.
Everything that is broken in our country can be fixed. Every problem can be solved. And every hurting family can find healing and hope.
Our citizens deserve this and so much more, so why not join forces and finally get the job done, and get it done right? On this and so many other things, Democrats and Republicans should get together and unite for the good of our country and for the good of the American people.
My administration wants to work with members of both parties to make childcare accessible and affordable; to help ensure new parents that they have paid family leave; to invest in women's health; and to promote clean air and clean water; and to rebuild our military and our infrastructure.
True love for our people requires us to find common ground, to advance the common good, and to cooperate on behalf of every American child who deserves a much brighter future.
An incredible young woman is with us this evening, who should serve as an inspiration to us all. Today is Rare Disease Day, and joining us in the gallery is a rare disease survivor, Megan Crowley.
Megan was diagnosed with Pompe disease, a rare and serious illness, when she was 15 months old. She was not expected to live past 5. On receiving this news, Megan's dad John fought with everything he had to save the life of his precious child. He founded a company to look for a cure and helped develop the drug that saved Megan's life. Today she is 20 years old and a sophomore at Notre Dame.
Megan's story is about the unbounded power of a father's love for a daughter. But our slow and burdensome approval process at the Food and Drug Administration keeps too many advances, like the one that saved Megan's life, from reaching those in need. If we slash the restraints, not just at the FDA, but across our Government, then we will be blessed with far more miracles just like Megan. In fact, our children will grow up in a nation of miracles.
But to achieve this future, we must enrich the mind and the souls of every American child. Education is the civil rights issue of our time. I am calling upon members of both parties to pass an education bill that funds school choice for disadvantaged youth, including millions of African American and Latino children. These families should be free to choose the public, private, charter, magnet, religious, or home school that is right for them.
Joining us tonight in the gallery is a remarkable woman, Denisha Merriweather. As a young girl, Denisha struggled in school and failed third grade twice. But then, she was able to enroll in a private center for learning—great learning center—with the help of a tax credit and a scholarship program.
Today, she is the first in her family to graduate, not just from high school, but from college. Later this year she will get her master's degree in social work. We want all children to be able to break the cycle of poverty just like Denisha.
But to break the cycle of poverty, we must also break the cycle of violence. The murder rate in 2015 experienced its largest single-year increase in nearly half a century. In Chicago, more than 4,000 people were shot last year alone, and the murder rate so far this year has been even higher. This is not acceptable in our society.
Every American child should be able to grow up in a safe community, to attend a great school, and to have access to a high-paying job. But to create this future, we must work with, not against—not against—the men and women of law enforcement. We must build bridges of cooperation and trust, not drive the wedge of disunity, and really, it's what it is—division. It's pure, unadulterated division. We have to unify.
Police and sheriffs are members of our community. They're friends and neighbors, they're mothers and fathers, sons and daughters, and they leave behind loved ones every day who worry about whether or not they'll come home safe and sound. We must support the incredible men and women of law enforcement.
And we must support the victims of crime. I have ordered the Department of Homeland Security to create an office to serve American victims. The office is called VOICE: Victims of Immigration Crime Engagement. We are providing a voice to those who have been ignored by our media and silenced by special interests. Joining us in the audience tonight are four very brave Americans whose Government failed them. Their names are Jamiel Shaw, Susan Oliver, Jenna Oliver, and Jessica Davis.
Jamiel's 17-year-old son was viciously murdered by an illegal immigrant gang member who had just been released from prison. Jamiel Shaw, Jr. was an incredible young man, with unlimited potential, who was getting ready to go to college where he would have excelled as a great college quarterback. But he never got the chance. His father, who is in the audience tonight, has become a very good friend of mine. Jamiel, thank you. Thank you.
Also with us are Susan Oliver and Jessica Davis. Their husbands, Deputy Sheriff Danny Oliver and Detective Michael Davis, were slain in the line of duty in California. They were pillars of their community. These brave men were viciously gunned down by an illegal immigrant with a criminal record and two prior deportations. Should have never been in our country.
Sitting with Susan is her daughter, Jenna. Jenna, I want you to know that your father was a hero, and that tonight you have the love of an entire country supporting you and praying for you.
To Jamiel, Jenna, Susan, and Jessica: I want you to know that we will never stop fighting for justice. Your loved ones will never, ever be forgotten. We will always honor their memory.
Finally, to keep America safe, we must provide the men and women of the United States military with the tools they need to prevent war. If they must, they have to fight and they only have to win.
I am sending Congress a budget that rebuilds the military, eliminates the defense sequester, and calls for one of the largest increases in national defense spending in American history. My budget will also increase funding for our veterans. Our veterans have delivered for this Nation, and now we must deliver for them.
The challenges we face as a nation are great, but our people are even greater. And none are greater or are braver than those who fight for America in uniform.
We are blessed to be joined tonight by Carryn Owens, the widow of U.S. Navy Special Operator, Senior Chief William "Ryan" Owens. Ryan died as he lived: a warrior and a hero, battling against terrorism and securing our Nation. I just spoke to our great General Mattis, just now, who reconfirmed that—and I quote—"Ryan was a part of a highly successful raid that generated large amounts of vital intelligence that will lead to many more victories in the future against our enemy." Ryan's legacy is etched into eternity. Thank you.  And Ryan is looking down, right now—you know that—and he is very happy because I think he just broke a record. 
For as the Bible teaches us, there is no greater act of love than to lay down one's life for one's friends. Ryan laid down his life for his friends, for his country, and for our freedom. And we will never forget Ryan.
To those allies who wonder what kind of a friend America will be, look no further than the heroes who wear our uniform. Our foreign policy calls for a direct, robust, and meaningful engagement with the world. It is American leadership based on vital security interests that we share with our allies all across the globe.
We strongly support NATO, an alliance forged through the bonds of two world wars that dethroned fascism, and a cold war, and defeated communism.
But our partners must meet their financial obligations. And now, based on our very strong and frank discussions, they are beginning to do just that. In fact, I can tell you, the money is pouring in. Very nice. We expect our partners—whether in NATO, the Middle East, or in the Pacific—to take a direct and meaningful role in both strategic and military operations, and pay their fair share of the cost. Have to do that.
We will respect historic institutions, but we will respect the foreign rights of all nations, and they have to respect our rights as a nation also. Free nations are the best vehicle for expressing the will of the people, and America respects the right of all nations to chart their own path. My job is not to represent the world. My job is to represent the United States of America.
But we know that America is better off when there is less conflict, not more. We must learn from the mistakes of the past. We have seen the war and the destruction that have ravaged and raged throughout the world—all across the world. The only long-term solution for these humanitarian disasters, in many cases, is to create the conditions where displaced persons can safely return home and begin the long, long process of rebuilding.
America is willing to find new friends and to forge new partnerships where shared interests align. We want harmony and stability, not war and conflict. We want peace, wherever peace can be found.
America is friends today with former enemies. Some of our closest allies, decades ago, fought on the opposite side of these terrible, terrible wars. This history should give us all faith in the possibilities for a better world. Hopefully, the 250th year for America will see a world that is more peaceful, more just, and more free.
On our 100th anniversary, in 1876, citizens from across our Nation came to Philadelphia to celebrate America's centennial. At that celebration, the country's builders and artists and inventors showed off their wonderful creations. Alexander Graham Bell displayed his telephone for the first time. Remington unveiled the first typewriter. An early attempt was made at electric light. Thomas Edison showed an automatic telegraph and an electric pen. Imagine the wonders our country could know in America's 250th year. Think of the marvels we can achieve if we simply set free the dreams of our people. Cures to the illnesses that have always plagued us are not too much to hope. American footprints on distant worlds are not too big a dream. Millions lifted from welfare to work is not too much to expect. And streets where mothers are safe from fear, schools where children learn in peace, and jobs where Americans prosper and grow are not too much to ask.
When we have all of this, we will have made America greater than ever before—for all Americans. This is our vision. This is our mission. But we can only get there together. We are one people with one destiny. We all bleed the same blood. We all salute the same great American flag. And we all are made by the same God.
When we fulfill this vision, when we celebrate our 250 years of glorious freedom, we will look back on tonight as when this new chapter of American greatness began. The time for small thinking is over. The time for trivial fights is behind us. We just need the courage to share the dreams that fill our hearts, the bravery to express the hopes that stir our souls, and the confidence to turn those hopes and those dreams into action.
From now on, America will be empowered by our aspirations, not burdened by our fears; inspired by the future, not bound by failures of the past; and guided by our vision, not blinded by our doubts.
I am asking all citizens to embrace this renewal of the American spirit. I am asking all Members of Congress to join me in dreaming big and bold, and daring things for our country. I am asking everyone watching tonight to seize this moment. Believe in yourselves, believe in your future, and believe, once more, in America.
Thank you, God bless you, and God bless the United States.
Good evening. Thank you very much. I speak to you today as a lifelong supporter and true friend of Israel. I'm a newcomer to politics, but not to backing the Jewish state.
In 2001, weeks after the attacks on New York City and on Washington and frankly, the attacks on all of us, attacks that perpetrated and they were perpetrated by the Islamic fundamentalists, Mayor Rudy Giuliani visited Israel to show solidarity with terror victims. I sent my plane, because I backed the mission for Israel 100 percent.
In spring of 2004, at the height of the violence in the Gaza Strip, I was the grand marshal of the 40th Salute to Israel parade, the largest single gathering in support of the Jewish state. It was a very dangerous time for Israel, and frankly, for anyone supporting Israel. Many people turned down this honor; I did not. I took the risk and I'm glad I did.
But I didn't come here tonight to pander to you about Israel. That's what politicians do, all talk, no action, believe me. I came here to speak to you about where I stand on the future of American relations with our strategic ally, our unbreakable friendship and our cultural brother, the only democracy in the Middle East, the State of Israel.
Thank you. My number one priority is to dismantle the disastrous deal with Iran. Thank you. I have been in business a long time, I know deal making and let me tell you, this deal is catastrophic for America, for Israel and for the whole of the Middle East.
The problem here is fundamental. We've rewarded the world's leading state sponsor of terror with 150 billion dollars and we received absolutely nothing in return. I've studied this issue in great detail. I would say, actually, greater by far than anybody else, believe me, oh, believe me.
And it's a bad deal. The biggest concern with the deal is not necessarily that Iran is going to violate it, because already as you know, it has. The bigger problem is that they can keep the terms and still get the bomb by simply running out the clock. And of course, they'll keep the billions and billions of dollars that we so stupidly and foolishly gave them.
The deal doesn't even require Iran to dismantle its military nuclear capability. Yes, it places limits on its military nuclear program for only a certain number of years, but when those restrictions expire, Iran will have an industrial-sized military nuclear capability ready to go and with zero provision for delay no matter how bad Iran's behavior is. Terrible, terrible situation that we are all placed in, and especially Israel.
When I'm president, I will adopt a strategy that focuses on three things when it comes to Iran. First, we will stand up to Iran's aggressive push to destabilize and dominate the region.
Iran is a very big problem and will continue to be, but if I'm not elected president, I know how to deal with trouble, and believe me, that's why I'm going to be elected president, folks. And we are leading in every poll, remember that, please.
Iran is a problem in Iraq, a problem in Syria, a problem in Lebanon, a problem in Yemen and will be a very, very major problem for Saudi Arabia. Literally, every day Iran provides more and better weapons to support their puppet states, Hezbollah, Lebanon received, and I'll tell you what, it has received sophisticated anti-ship weapons, anti-aircraft weapons and GPS systems and rockets like very few people anywhere in the world and certainly very few countries have.
Now they're in Syria trying to establish another front against Israel from the Syrian side of the Golan Heights. In Gaza, Iran is supporting Hamas, and Islamic Jihad. And in the West Bank, they're openly offering Palestinians 7,000 dollars per terror attack and 30,000 dollars for every Palestinian terrorist home that's been destroyed, a deplorable, deplorable situation.
Iran is financing military forces throughout the Middle East and it's absolutely incredible that we handed them over 150 billion dollars to do even more toward the many horrible acts of terror.
Secondly, we will totally dismantle Iran's global terror network, which is big and powerful, but not powerful like us.
Iran has seeded terror groups all over the world. During the last five years, Iran has perpetuated terror attacks in 25 different countries on five continents. They've got terror cells everywhere, including in the Western Hemisphere very close to home. Iran is the biggest sponsor of terrorism around the world and we will work to dismantle that reach, believe me, believe me.
Third, at the very least, we must enforce the terms of the previous deal to hold Iran totally accountable and we will enforce it like you've never seen a contract enforced before, folks, believe me.
Iran has already, since the deal is in place, test-fired ballistic missiles three times. Those ballistic missiles, with a range of 1,250 miles, were designed to intimidate not only Israel, which is only 600 miles away, but also intended to frighten Europe and someday maybe hit even the United States and we're not going to let that happen, we're not letting it happen and we're not letting it happen to Israel, believe me.
Thank you. Do you want to hear something really shocking? As many of the great people in this room know, painted on those missiles in both Hebrew and Farsi were the words "Israel must be wiped off the face of the earth." You can forget that.
What kind of demented minds write that in Hebrew? And here's another. You talk about twisted, here's another twisted part. Testing these missiles does not even violate the horrible deal that we've made. The deal is silent on test missiles, but those tests do violate the United Nations Security Council resolutions. The problem is, no one has done anything about it. We will, I promise, we will.
Thank you. Which brings me to my next point, the utter weakness and incompetence of the United Nations. The United Nations is not a friend of democracy, it's not a friend to freedom, it's not a friend even to the United States of America; whereas you know it has its home and it surely is not a friend to Israel.
With President Obama, in his final year, yay, he may be the worst thing to ever happen to Israel, believe me, believe me, and you know it better than anybody. So with the president in his final year, discussions have been swirling about an attempt to bring a security council resolution on terms of an eventual agreement between Israel and Palestine. Let me be clear, an agreement imposed by the United Nations would be a total and complete disaster.
The United States must oppose this resolution and use the power of our veto, which I will use as president 100 percent.
When people ask why, it's because that's not how you make a deal. Deals are made when parties come together, they come to a table and they negotiate. Each side must give up something, its values. I mean, we have to do something where there's value in exchange for something that it requires. That's what a deal is.
A deal is really something that when we impose it on Israel and Palestine, we bring together a group of people that come up with something. That's not going to happen with the United Nations. It will only further, very importantly, it will only further delegitimize Israel. It will be a catastrophe and a disaster for Israel. It's not going to happen, folks.
And further, it would reward Palestinian terrorism, because every day they're stabbing Israelis and even Americans. Just last week, American Taylor Allen Force, a West Point grad, phenomenal young person who served in Iraq and Afghanistan was murdered in the street by a knife-wielding Palestinian. You don't reward behavior like that. You cannot do it. There's only one way you treat that kind of behavior. You have to confront it.
So it's not up to the United Nations to really go with a solution. It's really the parties that must negotiate a resolution themselves. They have no choice, they have to do it themselves or it will never hold up anyway. The United States can be useful as a facilitator of negotiations, but no one should be telling Israel that it must abide by some agreement made by others thousands of miles away that don't even really know what's happening to Israel, to anything in the area. It's so preposterous. We're not going to let that happen.
When I'm president, believe me, I will veto any attempt by the U.N. to impose its will on the Jewish state. It will be vetoed 100 percent.
You see, I know about deal making, that's what I do. I wrote the Art of the Deal. One of the bestselling all-time, and I mean, seriously, I'm saying "one of," because I'll be criticized if I say "the," so I'm going to be very diplomatic, "one of," I'll be criticized, I think it is
number one, but why take a chance. One of the all-time bestselling books about deals and deal making.
To make a great deal, you need two willing participants. We know Israel is willing to deal. Israel has been trying.
That's right. Israel has been trying to sit down at the negotiating table without pre-conditions for years. You had Camp David in 2000 where Prime Minister Barak made an incredible offer, maybe even too generous; Arafat rejected it. In 2008, Prime Minister Olmert made an equally generous offer; the Palestinian Authority rejected it also.
Then John Kerry tried to come up with the framework and Abbas didn't even respond, not even to the Secretary of State of the United States of America. They didn't even respond. When I become president, the days of treating Israel like a second-class citizen will end on day one.
Thank you. And when I say something, I mean it.
I will meet with Prime Minister Netanyahu immediately. I have known him for many years and we'll be able to work closely together to help bring stability and peace to Israel and to the entire region. Meanwhile, every single day you have rampant incitement and children being taught to hate Israel and to hate the Jews. It has to stop.
When you live in a society where the firefighters are the heroes, little kids want to be firefighters. When you live in a society where athletes and movie stars are the heroes, little kids want to be athletes and movie stars. In Palestinian society, the heroes are those who murder Jews. We can't let this continue. We can't let this happen any longer.
You cannot achieve peace if terrorists are treated as martyrs. Glorifying terrorists is a tremendous barrier to peace. It is a horrible way to think. It's a barrier that can't be broken. That will end and it'll end soon, believe me. In Palestinian textbooks and mosques, you've got a culture of hatred that has been fomenting there for years and if we want to achieve peace, they've got to go out and they've got to start  this educational process. They have to end education of hatred. They have to end it and now.
There is no moral equivalency. Israel does not name public squares after terrorists. Israel does not pay its children to stab random Palestinians. You see, what President Obama gets wrong about deal making is that he constantly applies pressure to our friends and rewards our enemies.
And you see that happening all the time, that pattern practiced by the president and his administration, including former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton who is a total disaster, by the way. She and President Obama have treated Israel very, very badly.
But it's repeated itself over and over again and it's done nothing to embolden those who hate America. We saw that with releasing the 150 billion dollars to Iran in the hope that they would magically join the world community. It didn't happen.
President Obama thinks that applying pressure to Israel will force the issue, but it's precisely the opposite that happens. Already half of the population of Palestine has been taken over by the Palestinian ISIS in Hamas and the other half refuses to confront the first half. So it's a very difficult situation that's never going to get solved unless you have great leadership right here in the United States. We'll get it solved one way or the other. We will get it solved.
But when the United States stands with Israel, the chances of peace really rise and rises exponentially. That's what will happen when Donald Trump is president of the United States.
We will move the American embassy to the eternal capital of the Jewish people, Jerusalem. And we will send a clear signal that there is no daylight between America and our most reliable ally, the State of Israel.
The Palestinians must come to the table knowing that the bond between the United States and Israel is absolutely totally unbreakable. They must come to the table willing and able to stop the terror being committed on a daily basis against Israel. They must do that.
And they must come to the table willing to accept that Israel is a Jewish state and it will forever exist as a Jewish state.
I love the people in this room. I love Israel. I love Israel. I've been with Israel so long in terms of I've received some of my greatest honors from Israel; my father before me, incredible. My daughter Ivanka is about to have a beautiful Jewish baby. In fact, it could be happening right now, which would be very nice as far as I'm concerned.
So I want to thank you very much, this has been a truly great honor. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Thank you very much.
Thank you for the opportunity to speak to you, and thank you to the Center for the National Interest for honoring me with this invitation.
I would like to talk today about how to develop a new foreign policy direction for our country – one that replaces randomness with purpose, ideology with strategy, and chaos with peace.
It is time to shake the rust off of America's foreign policy. It's time to invite new voices and new visions into the fold.
The direction I will outline today will also return us to a timeless principle. My foreign policy will always put the interests of the American people, and American security, above all else. That will be the foundation of every decision that I will make.
America First will be the major and overriding theme of my administration.
But to chart our path forward, we must first briefly look back.
We have a lot to be proud of. In the 1940s we saved the world. The Greatest Generation beat back the Nazis and the Japanese Imperialists.
Then we saved the world again, this time from totalitarian Communism. The Cold War lasted for decades, but we won.
Democrats and Republicans working together got Mr. Gorbachev to heed the words of President Reagan when he said: "tear down this wall."
History will not forget what we did.
Unfortunately, after the Cold War, our foreign policy veered badly off course. We failed to develop a new vision for a new time. In fact, as time went on, our foreign policy began to make less and less sense.
Logic was replaced with foolishness and arrogance, and this led to one foreign policy disaster after another.
We went from mistakes in Iraq to Egypt to Libya, to President Obama's line in the sand in Syria. Each of these actions have helped to throw the region into chaos, and gave ISIS the space it needs to grow and prosper.
It all began with the dangerous idea that we could make Western democracies out of countries that had no experience or interest in becoming a Western Democracy.
We tore up what institutions they had and then were surprised at what we unleashed. Civil war, religious fanaticism; thousands of American lives, and many trillions of dollars, were lost as a result. The vacuum was created that ISIS would fill. Iran, too, would rush in and fill the void, much to their unjust enrichment.
Our foreign policy is a complete and total disaster.
No vision, no purpose, no direction, no strategy.
Today, I want to identify five main weaknesses in our foreign policy.
First, Our Resources Are Overextended
President Obama has weakened our military by weakening our economy. He's crippled us with wasteful spending, massive debt, low growth, a huge trade deficit and open borders.
Our manufacturing trade deficit with the world is now approaching $1 trillion a year. We're rebuilding other countries while weakening our own.
Ending the theft of American jobs will give us the resources we need to rebuild our military and regain our financial independence and strength.
I am the only person running for the Presidency who understands this problem and knows how to fix it.
Secondly, our allies are not paying their fair share.
Our allies must contribute toward the financial, political and human costs of our tremendous security burden. But many of them are simply not doing so. They look at the United States as weak and forgiving and feel no obligation to honor their agreements with us.
In NATO, for instance, only 4 of 28 other member countries, besides America, are spending the minimum required 2% of GDP on defense.
We have spent trillions of dollars over time – on planes, missiles, ships, equipment – building up our military to provide a strong defense for Europe and Asia. The countries we are defending must pay for the cost of this defense – and, if not, the U.S. must be prepared to let these countries defend themselves.
The whole world will be safer if our allies do their part to support our common defense and security.
A Trump Administration will lead a free world that is properly armed and funded.
Thirdly, our friends are beginning to think they can't depend on us.
We've had a president who dislikes our friends and bows to our enemies.
He negotiated a disastrous deal with Iran, and then we watched them ignore its terms, even before the ink was dry.
Iran cannot be allowed to have a nuclear weapon and, under a Trump Administration, will never be allowed to have a nuclear weapon.
All of this without even mentioning the humiliation of the United States with Iran's treatment of our ten captured sailors.
In negotiation, you must be willing to walk. The Iran deal, like so many of our worst agreements, is the result of not being willing to leave the table. When the other side knows you're not going to walk, it becomes absolutely impossible to win.
At the same time, your friends need to know that you will stick by the agreements that you have with them.
President Obama gutted our missile defense program, then abandoned our missile defense plans with Poland and the Czech Republic.
He supported the ouster of a friendly regime in Egypt that had a longstanding peace treaty with Israel – and then helped bring the Muslim Brotherhood to power in its place.
Israel, our great friend and the one true Democracy in the Middle East, has been snubbed and criticized by an Administration that lacks moral clarity. Just a few days ago, Vice President Biden again criticized Israel – a force for justice and peace – for acting as an impediment to peace in the region.
President Obama has not been a friend to Israel. He has treated Iran with tender love and care and made it a great power in the Middle East – all at the expense of Israel, our other allies in the region and, critically, the United States.
We've picked fights with our oldest friends, and now they're starting to look elsewhere for help.
Fourth, our rivals no longer respect us.
In fact, they are just as confused as our allies, but an even bigger problem is that they don't take us seriously any more.
When President Obama landed in Cuba on Air Force One, no leader was there to meet or greet him – perhaps an incident without precedent in the long and prestigious history of Air Force One.
Then, amazingly, the same thing happened in Saudi Arabia -- it's called no respect.
Do you remember when the President made a long and expensive trip to Copenhagen, Denmark to get the Olympics for our country, and, after this unprecedented effort, it was announced that the United States came in fourth place?
He should have known the result before making such an embarrassing commitment.
The list of humiliations goes on and on.
President Obama watches helplessly as North Korea increases its aggression and expands even further with its nuclear reach.
Our president has allowed China to continue its economic assault on American jobs and wealth, refusing to enforce trade rules – or apply the leverage on China necessary to rein in North Korea.
He has even allowed China to steal government secrets with cyber attacks and engage in industrial espionage against the United States and its companies.
We've let our rivals and challengers think they can get away with anything.
If President Obama's goal had been to weaken America, he could not have done a better job.
Finally, America no longer has a clear understanding of our foreign policy goals.
Since the end of the Cold War and the break-up of the Soviet Union, we've lacked a coherent foreign policy.
One day we're bombing Libya and getting rid of a dictator to foster democracy for civilians, the next day we are watching the same civilians suffer while that country falls apart.
We're a humanitarian nation. But the legacy of the Obama-Clinton interventions will be weakness, confusion, and disarray.
We have made the Middle East more unstable and chaotic than ever before.
We left Christians subject to intense persecution and even genocide.
Our actions in Iraq, Libya and Syria have helped unleash ISIS.
And we're in a war against radical Islam, but President Obama won't even name the enemy!
Hillary Clinton also refuses to say the words "radical Islam," even as she pushes for a massive increase in refugees.
After Secretary Clinton's failed intervention in Libya, Islamic terrorists in Benghazi took down our consulate and killed our ambassador and three brave Americans. Then, instead of taking charge that night, Hillary Clinton decided to go home and sleep! Incredible.
Clinton blames it all on a video, an excuse that was a total lie. Our Ambassador was murdered and our Secretary of State misled the nation – and by the way, she was not awake to take that call at 3 o'clock in the morning.
And now ISIS is making millions of dollars a week selling Libyan oil.
This will change when I am president.
To all our friends and allies, I say America is going to be strong again. America is going to be a reliable friend and ally again.
We're going to finally have a coherent foreign policy based upon American interests, and the shared interests of our allies.
We are getting out of the nation-building business, and instead focusing on creating stability in the world.
Our moments of greatest strength came when politics ended at the water's edge.
We need a new, rational American foreign policy, informed by the best minds and supported by both parties, as well as by our close allies.
This is how we won the Cold War, and it's how we will win our new and future struggles.
First, we need a long-term plan to halt the spread and reach of radical Islam.
Containing the spread of radical Islam must be a major foreign policy goal of the United States.
Events may require the use of military force. But it's also a philosophical struggle, like our long struggle in the Cold War.
In this we're going to be working very closely with our allies in the Muslim world, all of which are at risk from radical Islamic violence.
We should work together with any nation in the region that is threatened by the rise of radical Islam. But this has to be a two-way street – they must also be good to us and remember us and all we are doing for them.
The struggle against radical Islam also takes place in our homeland. There are scores of recent migrants inside our borders charged with terrorism. For every case known to the public, there are dozens more.
We must stop importing extremism through senseless immigration policies.
A pause for reassessment will help us to prevent the next San Bernardino or worse -- all you have to do is look at the World Trade Center and September 11th.
And then there's ISIS. I have a simple message for them. Their days are numbered. I won't tell them where and I won't tell them how. We must as, a nation, be more unpredictable. But they're going to be gone. And soon.
Secondly, we have to rebuild our military and our economy.
The Russians and Chinese have rapidly expanded their military capability, but look what's happened to us!
Our nuclear weapons arsenal – our ultimate deterrent – has been allowed to atrophy and is desperately in need of modernization and renewal.
Our active duty armed forces have shrunk from 2 million in 1991 to about 1.3 million today.
The Navy has shrunk from over 500 ships to 272 ships during that time.
The Air Force is about 1/3 smaller than 1991. Pilots are flying B-52s in combat missions today which are older than most people in this room.
And what are we doing about this? President Obama has proposed a 2017 defense budget that, in real dollars, cuts nearly 25% from what we were spending in 2011.
Our military is depleted, and we're asking our generals and military leaders to worry about global warming.
We will spend what we need to rebuild our military. It is the cheapest investment we can make. We will develop, build and purchase the best equipment known to mankind. Our military dominance must be unquestioned.
But we will look for savings and spend our money wisely. In this time of mounting debt, not one dollar can be wasted.
We are also going to have to change our trade, immigration and economic policies to make our economy strong again – and to put Americans first again. This will ensure that our own workers, right here in America, get the jobs and higher pay that will grow our tax revenue and increase our economic might as a nation.
We need to think smarter about areas where our technological superiority gives us an edge. This includes 3-D printing, artificial intelligence and cyberwarfare.
A great country also takes care of its warriors. Our commitment to them is absolute. A Trump Administration will give our service men and women the best equipment and support in the world when they serve, and the best care in the world when they return as veterans to civilian life.
Finally, we must develop a foreign policy based on American interests.
Businesses do not succeed when they lose sight of their core interests and neither do countries.
Look at what happened in the 1990s. Our embassies in Kenya and Tanzania were attacked and seventeen brave sailors were killed on the USS Cole. And what did we do? It seemed we put more effort into adding China to the World Trade Organization – which has been a disaster for the United States – than into stopping Al Qaeda.
We even had an opportunity to take out Osama Bin Laden, and didn't do it. And then, we got hit at the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, the worst attack on our country in its history.
Our foreign policy goals must be based on America's core national security interests, and the following will be my priorities.
In the Middle East, our goals must be to defeat terrorists and promote regional stability, not radical change. We need to be clear-sighted about the groups that will never be anything other than enemies.
And we must only be generous to those that prove they are our friends.
We desire to live peacefully and in friendship with Russia and China. We have serious differences with these two nations, and must regard them with open eyes. But we are not bound to be adversaries. We should seek common ground based on shared interests. Russia, for instance, has also seen the horror of Islamic terrorism.
I believe an easing of tensions and improved relations with Russia – from a position of strength – is possible. Common sense says this cycle of hostility must end. Some say the Russians won't be reasonable. I intend to find out. If we can't make a good deal for America, then we will quickly walk from the table.
Fixing our relations with China is another important step towards a prosperous century. China respects strength, and by letting them take advantage of us economically, we have lost all of their respect. We have a massive trade deficit with China, a deficit we must find a way, quickly, to balance.
A strong and smart America is an America that will find a better friend in China. We can both benefit or we can both go our separate ways.
After I am elected President, I will also call for a summit with our NATO allies, and a separate summit with our Asian allies. In these summits, we will not only discuss a rebalancing of financial commitments, but take a fresh look at how we can adopt new strategies for tackling our common challenges.
For instance, we will discuss how we can upgrade NATO's outdated mission and structure – grown out of the Cold War – to confront our shared challenges, including migration and Islamic terrorism.
I will not hesitate to deploy military force when there is no alternative. But if America fights, it must fight to win. I will never send our finest into battle unless necessary – and will only do so if we have a plan for victory.
Our goal is peace and prosperity, not war and destruction.
The best way to achieve those goals is through a disciplined, deliberate and consistent foreign policy.
With President Obama and Secretary Clinton we've had the exact opposite: a reckless, rudderless and aimless foreign policy – one that has blazed a path of destruction in its wake.
After losing thousands of lives and spending trillions of dollars, we are in far worse shape now in the Middle East than ever before.
I challenge anyone to explain the strategic foreign policy vision of Obama-Clinton – it has been a complete and total disaster.
I will also be prepared to deploy America's economic resources. Financial leverage and sanctions can be very persuasive – but we need to use them selectively and with determination. Our power will be used if others do not play by the rules.
Our friends and enemies must know that if I draw a line in the sand, I will enforce it.
However, unlike other candidates for the presidency, war and aggression will not be my first instinct. You cannot have a foreign policy without diplomacy. A superpower understands that caution and restraint are signs of strength.
Although not in government service, I was totally against the War in Iraq, saying for many years that it would destabilize the Middle East. Sadly, I was correct, and the biggest beneficiary was Iran, who is systematically taking over Iraq and gaining access to their rich oil reserves – something it has wanted to do for decades. And now, to top it all off, we have ISIS.
My goal is to establish a foreign policy that will endure for several generations.
That is why I will also look for talented experts with new approaches, and practical ideas, rather than surrounding myself with those who have perfect resumes but very little to brag about except responsibility for a long history of failed policies and continued losses at war.
Finally, I will work with our allies to reinvigorate Western values and institutions. Instead of trying to spread "universal values" that not everyone shares, we should understand that strengthening and promoting Western civilization and its accomplishments will do more to inspire positive reforms around the world than military interventions.
These are my goals, as president.
I will seek a foreign policy that all Americans, whatever their party, can support, and which our friends and allies will respect and welcome.
The world must know that we do not go abroad in search of enemies, that we are always happy when old enemies become friends, and when old friends become allies.
To achieve these goals, Americans must have confidence in their country and its leadership again.
Many Americans must wonder why our politicians seem more interested in defending the borders of foreign countries than their own.
Americans must know that we are putting the American people first again. On trade, on immigration, on foreign policy – the jobs, incomes and security of the American worker will always be my first priority.
No country has ever prospered that failed to put its own interests first. Both our friends and enemies put their countries above ours and we, while being fair to them, must do the same.
We will no longer surrender this country, or its people, to the false song of globalism.
The nation-state remains the true foundation for happiness and harmony. I am skeptical of international unions that tie us up and bring America down, and will never enter America into any agreement that reduces our ability to control our own affairs.
NAFTA, as an example, has been a total disaster for the U.S. and has emptied our states of our manufacturing and our jobs. Never again. Only the reverse will happen. We will keep our jobs and bring in new ones. Their will be consequences for companies that leave the U.S. only to exploit it later.
Under a Trump Administration, no American citizen will ever again feel that their needs come second to the citizens of foreign countries.
I will view the world through the clear lens of American interests.
I will be America's greatest defender and most loyal champion. We will not apologize for becoming successful again, but will instead embrace the unique heritage that makes us who we are.
The world is most peaceful, and most prosperous, when America is strongest.
America will continually play the role of peacemaker.
We will always help to save lives and, indeed, humanity itself. But to play that role, we must make America strong again.
We must make America respected again. And we must make America great again.
If we do that, perhaps this century can be the most peaceful and prosperous the world has ever known. Thank you.
Thank you for joining me today.
This was going to be a speech on Hillary Clinton and how bad a President, especially in these times of Radical Islamic Terrorism, she would be.
Even her former Secret Service Agent, who has seen her under pressure and in times of stress, has stated that she lacks the temperament and integrity to be president.
There will be plenty of opportunity to discuss these important issues at a later time, and I will deliver that speech soon.
But today there is only one thing to discuss: the growing threat of terrorism inside of our borders.
The attack on the Pulse Nightclub in Orlando, Florida, was the worst terrorist strike on our soil since September 11th, and the worst mass shooting in our country's history.
So many people dead, so many people gravely injured, so much carnage, such a disgrace.
The horror is beyond description.
The families of these wonderful people are totally devastated. Likewise, our whole nation, and indeed the whole world, is devastated.
We express our deepest sympathies to the victims, the wounded, and their families.
We mourn, as one people, for our nation's loss – and pledge our support to any and all who need it.
I would like to ask now that we all observe a moment of silence for the victims of the attack.
Our nation stands together in solidarity with the members of Orlando's LGBT Community.
This is a very dark moment in America's history.
A radical Islamic terrorist targeted the nightclub not only because he wanted to kill Americans, but in order to execute gay and lesbian citizens because of their sexual orientation.
It is a strike at the heart and soul of who we are as a nation.
It is an assault on the ability of free people to live their lives, love who they want and express their identity.
It is an attack on the right of every single American to live in peace and safety in their own country.
We need to respond to this attack on America as one united people – with force, purpose and determination.
But the current politically correct response cripples our ability to talk and think and act clearly.
If we don't get tough, and we don't get smart – and fast – we're not going to have a country anymore -- there will be nothing left.
The killer, whose name I will not use, or ever say, was born to Afghan parents who immigrated to the United States. His father published support for the Afghan Taliban, a regime which murders those who don't share its radical views. The father even said he was running for President of that country.
The bottom line is that the only reason the killer was in America in the first place was because we allowed his family to come here.
That is a fact, and it's a fact we need to talk about.
We have a dysfunctional immigration system which does not permit us to know who we let into our country, and it does not permit us to protect our citizens.
We have an incompetent administration, and if I am not elected President, that will not change over the next four years -- but it must change, and it must change now.
With fifty people dead, and dozens more wounded, we cannot afford to talk around the issue anymore -- we have to address it head on.
I called for a ban after San Bernardino, and was met with great scorn and anger but now, many are saying I was right to do so -- and although the pause is temporary, we must find out what is going on. The ban will be lifted when we as a nation are in a position to properly and perfectly screen those people coming into our country.
The immigration laws of the United States give the President the power to suspend entry into the country of any class of persons that the President deems detrimental to the interests or security of the United States, as he deems appropriate.
I will use this power to protect the American people. When I am elected, I will suspend immigration from areas of the world when there is a proven history of terrorism against the United States, Europe or our allies, until we understand how to end these threats.
After a full, impartial and long overdue security assessment, we will develop a responsible immigration policy that serves the interests and values of America.
We cannot continue to allow thousands upon thousands of people to pour into our country, many of whom have the same thought process as this savage killer.
Many of the principles of Radical Islam are incompatible with Western values and institutions.
Radical Islam is anti-woman, anti-gay and anti-American.
I refuse to allow America to become a place where gay people, Christian people, and Jewish people, are the targets of persecution and intimidation by Radical Islamic preachers of hate and violence.
It's not just a national security issue. It is a quality of life issue.
If we want to protect the quality of life for all Americans – women and children, gay and straight, Jews and Christians and all people – then we need to tell the truth about Radical Islam.
We need to tell the truth, also, about how Radical Islam is coming to our shores.
We are importing Radical Islamic Terrorism into the West through a failed immigration system -- and through an intelligence community held back by our president.
Even our own FBI Director has admitted that we cannot effectively check the backgrounds of the people we are letting into America.
All of the September 11th hijackers were issued visas.
Large numbers of Somali refugees in Minnesota have tried to join ISIS.
The Boston Bombers came here through political asylum.
The male shooter in San Bernardino – again, whose name I won't mention -- was the child of immigrants from Pakistan, and he brought his wife – the other terrorist - from Saudi Arabia, through another one of our easily exploited visa programs.
Immigration from Afghanistan into the United States has increased nearly five-fold in just one year. According to Pew Research, 99% of people in Afghanistan support oppressive Sharia Law.
We admit many more from other countries in the region who share these same oppressive views.
If we want to remain a free and open society, then we have to control our borders.
Yet, Hillary Clinton – for months and despite so many attacks – repeatedly refused to even say the words "radical Islam," until I challenged her yesterday to say the words or leave the race.
However, Hillary Clinton – who has been forced to say the words today after policies she supports have caused us so much damage – still has no clue what Radical Islam is, and won't speak honestly about what it is.
She is in total denial, and her continuing reluctance to ever name the enemy broadcasts weakness across the world.
In fact, just a few weeks before the San Bernardino slaughter, Hillary Clinton explained her refusal to say the words Radical Islam. Here is what she said: "Muslims are peaceful and tolerant people, and have nothing whatsoever to do with terrorism."
Hillary Clinton says the solution is to ban guns. They tried that in France, which has among the toughest gun laws in the world, and 130 were brutally murdered by Islamic terrorists in cold blood. Her plan is to disarm law-abiding Americans, abolishing the 2nd amendment, and leaving only the bad guys and terrorists with guns. She wants to take away Americans' guns, then admit the very people who want to slaughter us.
I will be meeting with the NRA, which has given me their earliest endorsement in a Presidential race, to discuss how to ensure Americans have the means to protect themselves in this age of terror.
The bottom line is that Hillary supports the policies that bring the threat of Radical Islam into America, and allow it to grow overseas.
In fact, Hillary Clinton's catastrophic immigration plan will bring vastly more Radical Islamic immigration into this country, threatening not only our security but our way of life.
When it comes to Radical Islamic terrorism, ignorance is not bliss – it's deadly.
The Obama Administration, with the support of Hillary Clinton and others, has also damaged our security by restraining our intelligence-gathering and failing to support law enforcement. They have put political correctness above common sense, above your safety, and above all else.
I refuse to be politically correct.
I will do the right thing--I want to straighten things out and to Make America Great Again.
The days of deadly ignorance will end, and they will end soon.
As President I will give our intelligence community, law enforcement and military the tools they need to prevent terrorist attacks.
We need an intelligence-gathering system second to none. That includes better cooperation between state, local and federal officials – and with our allies.
I will have an Attorney General, a Director of National Intelligence, and a Secretary of Defense who will know how to fight the war on Radical Islamic Terrorism – and who will have the support they require to get the job done.
We also must ensure the American people are provided the information they need to understand the threat.
The Senate Subcommittee on Immigration has already identified hundreds of immigrants charged with terrorist activities inside the United States since September 11th.
Nearly a year ago, the Senate Subcommittee asked President Obama's Departments of Justice, State and Homeland Security to provide the immigration history of all terrorists inside the United States.
These Departments refused to comply.
President Obama must release the full and complete immigration histories of all individuals implicated in terrorist activity of any kind since 9/11.
The public has a right to know how these people got here.
We have to screen applicants to know whether they are affiliated with, or support, radical groups and beliefs.
We have to control the amount of future immigration into this country to prevent large pockets of radicalization from forming inside America.
Even a single individual can be devastating, just look at what happened in Orlando. Can you imagine large groups?
Truly, our President doesn't know what he is doing. He has failed us, and failed us badly, and under his leadership, this situation will not get any better -- it will only get worse.
Each year, the United States permanently admits more than 100,000 immigrants from the Middle East, and many more from Muslim countries outside the Middle East. Our government has been admitting ever-growing numbers, year after year, without any effective plan for our security.
In fact, Clinton's State Department was in charge of the admissions process for people applying to enter from overseas.
Having learned nothing from these attacks, she now plans to massively increase admissions without a screening plan, including a 500% increase in Syrian refugees.
This could be a better, bigger version of the legendary Trojan Horse.
We can't let this happen.
Altogether, under the Clinton plan, you'd be admitting hundreds of thousands of refugees from the Middle East with no system to vet them, or to prevent the radicalization of their children.
The burden is on Hillary Clinton to tell us why she believes immigration from these dangerous countries should be increased without any effective system to screen who we are bringing in.
The burden is on Hillary Clinton to tell us why we should admit anyone into our country who supports violence of any kind against gay and lesbian Americans.
The burden is also on Hillary Clinton to tell us how she will pay for it. Her plan will cost Americans hundreds of billions of dollars long-term.
Wouldn't this money be better spent on rebuilding America for our current population, including the many poor people already living here?
We have to stop the tremendous flow of Syrian refugees into the United States – we don't know who they are, they have no documentation, and we don't know what they're planning.
What I want is common sense. I want a mainstream immigration policy that promotes American values.
That is the choice I put before the American people: a mainstream immigration policy designed to benefit America, or Hillary Clinton's radical immigration policy designed to benefit politically-correct special interests.
We've got to get smart, and tough, and vigilant, and we've got to do it now, because later is too late.
Ask yourself, who is really the friend of women and the LGBT community, Donald Trump with his actions, or Hillary Clinton with her words? Clinton wants to allow Radical Islamic terrorists to pour into our country—they enslave women, and murder gays.
I don't want them in our country.
The terrorist attack on the Pulse Night Club demands a full and complete investigation into every aspect of the assault.
In San Bernardino, as an example, people knew what was going on, but they used the excuse of racial profiling for not reporting it.
We need to know what the killer discussed with his relatives, parents, friends and associates.
We need to know if he was affiliated with any radical Mosques or radical activists and what, if any, is their immigration status.
We need to know if he travelled anywhere, and who he travelled with.
We need to make sure every single last person involved in this plan – including anyone who knew something but didn't tell us – is brought to justice.
If it can be proven that somebody had information about any attack, and did not give this information to authorities, they must serve prison time .
America must do more – much more – to protect its citizens, especially people who are potential victims of crimes based on their backgrounds or sexual orientations.
It also means we must change our foreign policy.
The decision to overthrow the regime in Libya, then pushing for the overthrow of the regime in Syria, among other things, without plans for the day after, have created space for ISIS to expand and grow.
These actions, along with our disastrous Iran deal, have also reduced our ability to work in partnership with our Muslim allies in the region.
That is why our new goal must be to defeat Islamic terrorism, not nation-building.
For instance, the last major NATO mission was Hillary Clinton's war in Libya. That mission helped unleash ISIS on a new continent.
I've said NATO needs to change its focus to stopping terrorism. Since I've raised that criticism, NATO has since announced a new initiative focused on just that.
America must unite the whole civilized world in the fight against Islamic terrorism, just like we did against communism in the Cold War.
We've tried it President Obama's way. He gave the world his apology tour, we got ISIS, and many other problems, in return.
I'd like to conclude my remarks today by again expressing our solidarity with the people of Orlando who have come under attack.
When I am President, I pledge to protect and defend all Americans who live inside of our borders. Wherever they come from, wherever they were born, all Americans living here and following our laws will be protected.
America will be a tolerant and open society.
America will also be a safe society.
We will protect our borders at home.
We will defeat ISIS overseas.
We will ensure every parent can raise their children in peace and safety.
We will make America rich again.
We will make America safe again.
We will make American Great Again.
Thank you.
The media talks about "homegrown," terrorism, but Islamic radicalism, and the networks that nurture it, are imports from overseas.
Yes, there are many radicalized people already inside our country as a result of the poor policies of the past. But the whole point is that it will be much, much easier to deal with our current problem if we don't keep on bringing in people who add to the problem.
For instance, the controversial Mosque attended by the Boston Bombers had as its founder an immigrant from overseas charged in an assassination plot.
This shooter in Orlando was the child of an immigrant father who supported one of the most repressive regimes on Earth. Why would we admit people who support violent hatred?
Hillary Clinton can never claim to be a friend of the gay community as long as she continues to support immigration policies that bring Islamic extremists to our country who suppress women, gays and anyone who doesn't share their views.
She can't have it both ways. She can't claim to be supportive of these communities while trying to increase the number of people coming in who want to oppress them.
How does this kind of immigration make our life better? How does this kind of immigration make our country better?
Why does Hillary Clinton want to bring people here—in vast numbers—who reject our values?
Immigration is a privilege, and we should not let anyone into this country who doesn't support our communities – all of our communities.
America has already admitted four times more immigrants than any country on earth, and we continue to admit millions more with no real checks or scrutiny.
Not surprisingly, wages for our workers haven't budged in many years.
So whether it's matter of national security, or financial security, we can't afford to keep on going like this. We owe $19 trillion in debt, and no longer have options.
All our communities, from all backgrounds, are ready for some relief. This is not an act of offense against anyone; it is an act of defense.
I want us all to work together, including in partnership with our Muslim communities. But Muslim communities must cooperate with law enforcement and turn in the people who they know are bad – and they do know where they are.
I want to fix our schools, roads, bridges and job market. I want every American to succeed. Hillary Clinton wants to empty out the Treasury to bring people into the country that include individuals who preach hate against our own citizens.
I want to protect our citizens – all of our citizens.
Campaign 2016
Trump-Pence: Make America Great Again
Trump-Pence: Make America Great Again
Location:
United States
New York
Font Size:
mediumlargemaximum
Print
Share
The American Presidency Project
Promote Your Page Too
Thank you, everybody. Great honor. Great honor, thank you. This is a wonderful day. Aww.  Wow.  On a Saturday morning yet. Isn't that nice? Thank you, all. And we're going to have an incredible convention. It's really going well. We're going to have an incredible convention. And we're going to get things solved, and we're going to do lots of wonderful things for our country, most importantly.
So I'm here today to introduce the man who will be my partner in this campaign, and the White House, to fix our rigged system -- we are in a rigged, rigged system -- and to make America safe again and to make America great again.
I want to also address the Islamic terror attack in France. We've witnessed horror beyond belief, no matter where you look. And now it's happening more and more. And it's never going to stop.
We need new leadership. We need new thinking. We need strength. We need in our country law and order. And if I'm elected president, that will happen. 
I want to express our unyielding support for the people of France, and we mourn their loss as a nation.
And as far as Turkey is concerned, so many friends in Turkey, great people, amazing people. We wish them well. It looks like they're resolving the difficulty, but we wish them well. A lot of -- a lot of anguish last night, but hopefully it'll all work out.
Now, as, hopefully, the next president of the United States, I want to refer back to what's happened over the years. The Middle East today is more unstable than ever before. Never been like this. Out of control. After four years of Clinton, who really led the way and led Obama down a horrible path, because I don't even think he could have made these decisions so badly, she led him right down a horrible path. He didn't know what he was doing.
Iraq, Syria, all into chaos. And Iran is on a path to nuclear weapons. And on top of that, we gave them back $150 billion, and we didn't get our hostages until the end. Now we're seeing unrest in Turkey, a further demonstration of the failures of Obama-Clinton. You just have to look, every single thing they touched has turned to horrible, horrible, death-defying problems.
We also need to bring back in this country -- because we see what happened -- our industry, our manufacturing, our jobs. They've been taken away, like we're babies. Taken away. And we're going to bring them back.
I found the leader who will help us deliver a safe society and a prosperous -- really prosperous society for all Americans. Indiana Governor Mike Pence was my first choice. I've admired the work he's done, especially in the state of Indiana. And I'm going to go over some of those accomplishments in just a minute.
But I also admire the fact that he fights for the people, and he's going to fight for you. He is a solid, solid person. 
Governor Pence served Indiana with distinction in Congress. He rose to leadership and served as the chairman of the entire House Republican Conference. Number one. He's really got the skills of a highly talented executive, leading the state of Indiana to jobs, growth, and opportunity, in spite of the relentless obstacles put in his way and every state's way by the Obama administration. It's horrible out there. High taxes and regulations. And it's out of control.
Mike Pence is a man of honor, character, and honesty. We know that. Hillary Clinton is the embodiment of corruption. She's a corrupt person. What she's done with her e-mails, what she's done with so many things, and I see the ads up all the time, the ads. She's totally bought and paid for by Wall Street, the special interests, the lobbyists, 100 percent. She's crooked Hillary. 
And I think that, while she got away with murder, in fact, I think it might be her greatest accomplishment, escaping the recent scandal, and her lies, and the loss of 33,000 e-mails -- but it wasn't a loss, she discarded -- that in itself is a major crime. Other people have been paying tremendous prices for what they've done, which is peanuts compared to what happened with Hillary Clinton.
Thirty-three thousand e-mails are missing, and that's OK? Didn't give them to the FBI? Didn't give them to the attorney general, and that's OK? Wipes her server clean, that's OK? These are crimes. These are crimes. And how she got away with it, I think I understand it, but I think a lot of people don't.
But I do believe, while she didn't pay the price she should have paid, she's going to pay that price when November 8th rolls around. She's going to pay it at the polls. I believe that. 
On top of everything else, Hillary made $21.6 million giving speeches to special interests in a short period of time. She's totally owned by Wall Street. We believe in Americanism; she believes in globalism. And it's not that she believes in it. The people that give her all of this money believe in it. And she'll believe in whatever they want her to believe. Believe me. That's it. 
What a difference between crooked Hillary Clinton and Mike Pence. 
Mike Pence will never be afraid to speak the name of our enemy: Radical Islam. Radical Islamic terrorism. You saw it the other day with the truck screaming out the window. You heard what he was screaming out the window. You saw it in San Bernardino. You saw it at the World Trade Center. You saw it in Orlando. How horrible was that? You saw it in Paris. You see it all over.
And Hillary is a weak person. We are the law and order candidates, and we're the law and order party. We're going to change things around. There's going to be respect again for law and order. 
Hillary Clinton's foreign policy helped launch ISIS. You know, she's talking -- I see the ads she puts on. If I make one statement, which is fine, she'll take that statement and put on a totally dishonest ad, because she's got a lot of money because it's given to her by the lobbyists and by the special interests. Got a lot of money.
But I see the ads on foreign policy. She's talking about Donald Trump doesn't have foreign policy experience. Of course not. I've been a very, very, very successful businessperson. I mean -- but -- but if you look at my calls, I said, don't go into Iraq. Nobody cared, because I was a businessperson. I was a civilian. Take the oil. Many, many calls I've made.
You take a look. I said that in Scotland and in the U.K., that was going to happen. I was the one that predicted it. And everybody said, he's wrong, he's wrong. President Obama said, if it happens, they're going to get to the back of the line, which probably is one of the reasons they lost, because I consider it a win. I think it was a win for them, actually, because they don't want to be told what to do. And they don't want to be told that when people pour into the country, they have to take them even if they're not qualified, even if they don't have paperwork, even if they have no idea where they come from.
And I said that Brexit's going to happen. I said that they are going to break away. And everybody laughed at me. And the odds were 20 percent. And then when it happened, she took an ad saying, oh, Donald Trump said this or that, but I'm the one that said it was going to happen. And some of the more fair reporters -- about 30 percent of them -- said he was right. I appreciate that. Seventy percent didn't, so that's OK.
So Mike Pence will never be afraid to speak the name of our enemy. So important. Now, I think if you look at one of the big reasons that I chose Mike -- and one of the reasons is party unity, I have to be honest. So many people have said party unity. Because I'm an outsider. I want to be an outsider. I think it's one of the reasons I won in landslides. I won in landslides. This wasn't close. This wasn't close. 
No, this wasn't close. This was -- in the history of the Republican Party, history, with 17 people running, you have to understand, other people ran against one, two, and three. There were 17. We got -- I say we, because I'm the messenger, I'm a messenger -- I'm doing a good job, but I'm a messenger -- we got almost 14 million votes. That's more than any other person in the history of the Republican Party in the primary system running for president.
Think of it. That's more than Ronald Reagan, who we love. That's more than Richard Nixon. It's more than Dwight D. Eisenhower. You know, he won the Second World War, in all fairness. Pretty good. It's more than the Bushes.
But I mean by a lot. I don't mean by a little. But that's with 17 people. People don't over-say that. That means our message is unbelievable. And I want to thank all of the loyal people -- because I have such loyal, unbelievable people, and they displayed that just yesterday in Cleveland, where it's going to be so amazing.
But they displayed it. It was on display, where we had this group of people, who -- many of whom I've known, and I won't say, because for party unity, I'll say they're wonderful people, OK? Never Trump, they said, never Trump, never Trump. Oh, we're going to win. They got crushed. And they got crushed immediately, because people want what we're saying to happen.
They're tired of a country that has horrible trade deals, that has no borders, that has taxes that are through the roof, highest taxed nation just about in the world, that has regulations that don't allow you to start a business and destroy your business if you do start -- and, by the way, speaking of destroying businesses, we're going to take care of the miners and we're going to take care of the steelworkers. We're going to put 'em back to work. 
So they're very tired of it. But I want to thank all of those people that – delegates-- that were on the different committees, because, boy, was that something. Did we show them something. And unfortunately, the vote was very late. But essentially, we had 112-12. This was the vote that was going to put it onto the floor and we're going to have a big fight. We're not going to have a fight. People agree with what we've -- they want the wall. They want the borders. They want these things to happen.
And what we're doing... 
And what we're doing that I'm so proud of, so proud -- and nobody else would even think about doing it -- I fought very hard for it. We'll call it the Johnson amendment, where he took away from the evangelicals -- and I want to thank the evangelicals, because without the evangelicals, I could not have won this nomination. The evangelicals have been unbelievable. I dominated with the evangelicals. A lot of people were surprised. They say he's not perfect. But you know what? They know I'm going to get the job done, and they're really smart. 
And I said -- and I said for the evangelicals, that we're going to do something that nobody's even tried to do. You have the Johnson amendment passed by Lyndon Johnson and his group. And he was a powerful president. He knew how to get things done. He got bogged down in a war that was a disaster and it destroyed him. But he was a powerful president.
And we call it the Johnson amendment, where you are just absolutely shunned if you're evangelical, if you want to talk religion, you lose your tax-exempt status. We put into the platform, we're going to get rid of that horrible Johnson amendment. And we're going to let evangelicals, we're going to let Christians and Jews and people of religion talk without being afraid to talk.
I saw this. I had so many great leaders so many times up to my office, the top -- the absolute top evangelical leaders, Christian leaders, Jewish leaders, believe it or not, some Muslim leaders -- people are going to be surprised to hear that -- I had the top leaders up to my office, and I said, why is it that you're so powerful as an individual, and yet when you get out there, you're sort of timid?
And they didn't know how to answer the question. And it took two, three meetings before I figured it out. One great, great gentleman that everybody knows, but whose name I will not reveal, said, Mr. Trump, we live in fear in our churches and our synagogues. We live in fear that we're going to lose our tax-exempt status if we say anything that's even slightly political.
And I looked out the window. I was in Trump Tower, and I pointed to people walking down the street. I said, well, they have the right to speak, but you don't. That means they're more powerful than you are. We have to do something about it. How did it start? How did it start? 
And they said, it started because of Lyndon Johnson. And he actually had a problem in Texas with a certain religious leader. And he did this, and he got it done. And we're going to undo it, so that religious leaders in this country, and those unbelievable people--and not because they backed me in such large numbers-- but so that religion can again have a voice, because religion's voice has been taken away. And we're going to change that. OK? All right. 
Back to Mike Pence. So one of the primary reasons I chose Mike was I looked at Indiana, and I won Indiana big. Remember, Indiana was going to be the firewall. That's where Trump was going down -- they agreed I'd win New York, I'd win Pennsylvania, I'd win all these places. But Indiana was going to be the firewall.
So I got to study Indiana, and I got to study New York and a lot of other places, and I saw how NAFTA, signed by Bill Clinton, has drained our manufacturing jobs, just drained us like we've never been drained before. NAFTA, again, signed by Bill Clinton. NAFTA is the worst economic deal in the history of our country. Manufacturing down in some states 55, 60 percent. It's a horror show, moving to Mexico, moving to other places.
I have a friend who's a great builder. What he builds is plants. That's all he does, is build plants. He doesn't build buildings. He doesn't -- he builds plants. It's the biggest in the world, from what I hear.
I said, how's business? I was with him the other day. How's business? He goes unbelievable. I said, really, wow, I'm surprised. Why is it unbelievable? Because I think of him as building in this country. He says, Donald, what we're doing in Mexico, you won't believe. I said, what do you mean? He said, we're building plants in Mexico the likes of which we've never seen.
I said, what about this country? Not much. Not much. That's the expression. He said exactly that. Not much. I said, but Mexico? He said, you've never seen anything like it. It's incredible.
Folks, that's going to stop. We're going to go reverse it. We're going to bring our jobs back to this country. We can't be the stupid people anymore. OK? 
And he was better than a pollster. He's better than a consultant. I would say, how are we doing? And you get a big report that costs you millions of dollars. Doesn't cost me millions. Me, I give them $10,000, OK? 
It costs other people millions. It costs other campaigns millions to get a report. Every time they get a report, it's millions. But I'll tell you what, a guy like this is better than anybody you can hire to do a report. And he said it. He didn't say it from the standpoint of he's upset about it. Just fact. How are we doing? Unbelievable in Mexico. In fact, he actually said, I've never, ever seen anything like it.
And if you look, Ford is building massive plants there instead of Michigan. We want them to build them in Michigan. They're going to build them in Michigan. And you know that I know how to do that. So easy. So easy.
But they're not going to do and they're not going to take advantage of us without retribution. There are consequences when you fire thousands of people and move to another country and then think you're going to you're your product and sell it in here. There are consequences. And those consequences are going to keep companies in our country. It's very simple. And everybody here knows what the consequences are, but I won't say that because I'm much more interested right now in Mike. 
Indiana's unemployment rate -- and this is the primary reason I wanted Mike, other than he looks very good, other than he's got an incredible family, incredible wife and family -- Karen is amazing. 
Incredible family. Highly respected. Expected to go for another four years. He would have won, I think, very easily in Indiana. Indiana, their unemployment rate has fallen. When he was there, when he started, 8.4 percent when he was governor, when he took over, to less than 5 percent in May of 2016. Since January 2013, Indiana's labor force has increased by more than 186,000 jobs. You have to understand, I've gone around to all these states. I've gone to all of them. And every time, I have statisticians. I say give me the stats on a state.
And it's always bad, down, down, down. Down 40 percent, 50 percent, 60 percent in some cases. Here's somebody where it's gone up. Private sector job growth is up by more than 147,000 jobs since 2013. That's like very unusual.
Governor Pence balanced the budget. Can you imagine a balanced budget? Our budget's so out of whack in this country, we don't know what we're doing. We're going to owe very soon $21 trillion. He balanced the budget. They don't know what that means. Governor Pence balanced the budget, produced a surplus, and maintains a $2 billion reserve fund in the state of Indiana.
It's also rated triple-A, their bonds are rated triple-A. Very few states have that. Triple-A. The best. That's as good as you can get, whether you're a company, a state, triple-A.
Indiana was recently recognized by Chief Executive Magazine as the number-one state in the Midwest for business. Number one. And it's not even close. There are approximately 34,000 fewer Hoosiers on unemployment insurance now than there were when Mike Pence took office. So you have fewer Hoosiers, fewer people from Indiana.
And besides that, Bobby Knight, my friend, who really did help me. I mean, if you want a reference, Bobby Knight in Indiana, we love Bobby Knight. But he agrees with everything I'm saying. He loves the governor.
Indiana has the second-lowest unemployment rate in the nation, for veterans, where nobody's fighting for the veterans like I'm fighting for the veterans, the veterans have been left behind. 
If you remember a few months ago, Hillary Clinton said the, really -- they're doing much better, the V.A. is much better. They're doing a much better job than people give it credit for. People are dying on line waiting for five, six days for doctors. People are dying on -- they can't even see a doctor. It's a scandal.
Take a look at what's happening with the V.A. in Arizona. Take a look at what's happening with -- you know, just the Veterans Administration hospitals. It's a scandal. It's corrupt. It's incompetent. It's a scandal. And Hillary Clinton thought it was just fine. And, boy, am I going to win big with the veterans. I mean, we know that for a fact. 
So it's now 2.4 percent for veterans. In 2013, when Mike Pence took office, the rate for veterans was 6.7 percent. It was 31st in the nation, one of the bad ones, and now it's almost the best. Got 'em jobs. Got 'em jobs.
Indianapolis is ranked second in top 10 metro areas for young college graduates. That's a great thing. They're going to stay there. That's a great thing. And Mike worked hard on that. He was telling me, that was not easy.
Under Governor Pence's leadership, Indiana enacted the largest K-12 education funding increase in the state's history. So you're balancing budgets, and yet you're giving more money to education. Isn't that a great thing? 
Indiana has just about the largest school choice program in America. School choice is where it's at, folks. You want to get your schools better, you gotta get rid of Common Core fast.
Governor Pence enacted the largest income tax cut in the state's history. Think of that. We're cutting taxes and balancing budgets. And along with corporate tax reform, just about number one in the country. CNBC ranked Indiana first in the nation for its infrastructure.
So with all of these cuts and all of these balancing budgets, we're spending more money on education, and the infrastructure is kept up. That had so much -- look, as a builder, nobody in the history of this country has ever known so much about infrastructure as Donald Trump. I build infrastructure. Do I know how to build a wall? Do I know how to build infrastructure?
You know, it's very interesting. We're building -- we're building -- I won -- the -- which is pretty amazing with the Obama administration, but I won the right to have the old post office building on Pennsylvania Avenue, right near the White House, and it's an amazing -- probably the best location, one of the most sought after projects in the history of the GSA, General Services. And I really like what's happened. We're going to have an opening very soon. Ivanka and Eric and Don did a fantastic job on it.
But I thought the other day, I was going over the numbers, we're under budget and about a year -- actually more than a year – but we're a year ahead of schedule, and we're under budget substantially. And the quality of the work is even better than we originally were going to do. 
And when I explained to a government representative that we're under budget and ahead of schedule, they almost fell off, because they've never heard those words before. They've never heard them.
So when I see what happened to Indiana, which was having tremendous problems, when I see what happened to Indiana under Mike's work -- also his predecessor did a great job, by the way, great job, who's now at Duke -- who's now at Purdue -- when I see what happened with respect to the numbers, the state, and everything else, that, to me, was probably the single most important point, because it's something that hasn't happened -- almost has not happened in this whole country.
The turnaround and the strength of Indiana has been incredible, and I learned that when I campaigned there. And I learned that when I won that state in a landslide. And I learned that when Governor Pence, under tremendous pressure from establishment people, endorsed somebody else, but it was more of an endorsement for me, if you remember. He talked about Trump, then he talked about Ted -- who's a good guy, by the way, who's going to be speaking at the convention, Ted Cruz, good guy -- but he talked about Trump, Ted, then he went back to Trump. I said, who did he endorse?
So even though he was under pressure, because I'm so, you know, outside of the establishment, it was the single greatest non-endorsement I've ever had in my life, OK? I will tell you. 
So with that, I would like to introduce a man who I truly believe will be outstanding in every way and will be the next vice president of the United States, Governor Mike Pence. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. 
Campaign 2016
Trump: Make America Great Again
Trump: Make America Great Again
Location:
United States
New York
Font Size:
mediumlargemaximum
Print
Share
The American Presidency Project
Promote Your Page Too
Today I'd like to share my thoughts about the stakes in this election.
People have asked me why I am running for President.
I have built an amazing business that I love and I get to work side-by-side with my children every day.
We come to work together and turn visions into reality.
We think big, and then we make it happen.
I love what I do, and I am grateful beyond words to the nation that has allowed me to do it.
So when people ask me why I am running, I quickly answer: I am running to give back to this country which has been so good to me.
When I see the crumbling roads and bridges, or the dilapidated airports, or the factories moving overseas to Mexico, or to other countries, I know these problems can all be fixed, but not by Hillary Clinton – only by me.
The fact is, we can come back bigger and better and stronger than ever before --Jobs, jobs, jobs!
Everywhere I look, I see the possibilities of what our country could be. But we can't solve any of these problems by relying on the politicians who created them.
We will never be able to fix a rigged system by counting on the same people who rigged it in the first place.
The insiders wrote the rules of the game to keep themselves in power and in the money.
That's why we're asking Bernie Sanders' voters to join our movement: so together we can fix the system for ALL Americans. Importantly, this includes fixing all of our many disastrous trade deals.
Because it's not just the political system that's rigged. It's the whole economy.
It's rigged by big donors who want to keep down wages.
It's rigged by big businesses who want to leave our country, fire our workers, and sell their products back into the U.S. with absolutely no consequences for them.
It's rigged by bureaucrats who are trapping kids in failing schools.
It's rigged against you, the American people.
Hillary Clinton who, as most people know, is a world class liar –
just look at her pathetic email and server statements, or her phony landing in Bosnia where she said she was under attack but the attack turned out to be young girls handing her flowers, a total self-serving lie.
Brian Williams' career was destroyed for saying far less.
Yesterday, she even tried to attack me and my many businesses. But here is the bottom line: I started off in Brooklyn New York, not so long ago, with a small loan and built a business worth over 10 billion dollars. I have always had a talent for building businesses and, importantly, creating jobs. That is a talent our country desperately needs.
I am running for President to end the unfairness and to put you, the American worker, first.
We are going to put America First, and we are going to Make America Great again.
This election will decide whether we are ruled by the people, or by the politicians.
Here is my promise to the American voter:
If I am elected President, I will end the special interest monopoly in Washington, D.C.
The other candidate in this race has spent her entire life making money for special interests – and taking money from special interests.
Hillary Clinton has perfected the politics of personal profit and theft.
She ran the State Department like her own personal hedge fund – doing favors for oppressive regimes, and many others, in exchange for cash.
Then, when she left, she made $21.6 million giving speeches to Wall Street banks and other special interests – in less than 2 years – secret speeches that she does not want to reveal to the public.
Together, she and Bill made $153 million giving speeches to lobbyists, CEOs, and foreign governments in the years since 2001.
They totally own her, and that will never change.
The choice in this election is a choice between taking our government back from the special interests, or surrendering our last scrap of independence to their total and complete control.
Those are the stakes.
Hillary Clinton wants to be President. But she doesn't have the temperament, or, as Bernie Sanders' said, the judgement, to be president.
She believes she is entitled to the office.
Her campaign slogan is "I'm with her."
You know what my response to that is? I'm with you: the American people.
She thinks it's all about her.
I know it's all about you – I know it's all about making America Great Again for All Americans.
Our country lost its way when we stopped putting the American people first.
We got here because we switched from a policy of Americanism – focusing on what's good for America's middle class – to a policy of globalism, focusing on how to make money for large corporations who can move their wealth and workers to foreign countries all to the detriment of the American worker and the American economy.
We reward companies for offshoring, and we punish companies for doing business in America and keeping our workers employed.
This is not a rising tide that lifts all boats.
This is a wave of globalization that wipes out our middle class and our jobs.
We need to reform our economic system so that, once again, we can all succeed together, and America can become rich again.
That's what we mean by America First.
Our country will be better off when we start making our own products again, bringing our once great manufacturing capabilities back to our shores.
Our Founders understood this.
One of the first major bills signed by George Washington called for "the encouragement and protection of manufactur" in America.
Our first Republican President, Abraham Lincoln, warned us by saying:
"The abandonment of the protective policy by the American government will produce want and ruin among our people."
I have visited the cities and towns across America and seen the devastation caused by the trade policies of Bill and Hillary Clinton.
Hillary Clinton supported Bill Clinton's disastrous NAFTA, just like she supported China's entrance into the World Trade Organization.
We've lost nearly one-third of our manufacturing jobs since these two Hillary-backed agreements were signed.
Our trade deficit with China soared 40% during Hillary Clinton's time as Secretary of State -- a disgraceful performance for which she should not be congratulated, but rather scorned.
Then she let China steal hundreds of billions of dollars in our intellectual property – a crime which is continuing to this day.
Hillary Clinton gave China millions of our best jobs, and effectively let China completely rebuild itself.
In return, Hillary Clinton got rich!
The book Clinton Cash, by Peter Schweitzer, documents how Bill and Hillary used the State Department to enrich their family at America's expense.
She gets rich making you poor.
Here is a quote from the book: "At the center of US policy toward China was Hillary Clinton…at this critical time for US-china relations, Bill Clinton gave a number of speeches that were underwritten by the Chinese government and its supporters."
These funds were paid to the Clinton bank account while Hillary was negotiating with China on behalf of the United States.
She sold out our workers, and our country, for Beijing.
Hillary Clinton has also been the biggest promoter of the Trans-Pacific Partnership, which will ship millions more of our jobs overseas – and give up Congressional power to an international foreign commission.
Now, because I have pointed out why it would be such a disastrous deal, she is pretending that she is against it. She has even deleted this record of total support from her book – deletion is something she is very good at -- (at least 30,000 emails are missing.)
But this latest Clinton cover-up doesn't change anything: if she is elected president, she will adopt the Trans-Pacific Partnership, and we will lose millions of jobs and our economic independence for good. She will do this, just as she has betrayed the American worker on trade at every single stage of her career – and it will be even worse than the Clintons' NAFTA deal.
I want trade deals, but they have to be great for the United States and our workers.
We don't make great deals anymore, but we will once I become president.
It's not just our economy that's been corrupted, but our foreign policy too.
The Hillary Clinton foreign policy has cost America thousands of lives and trillions of dollars – and unleashed ISIS across the world.
No Secretary of State has been more wrong, more often, and in more places than Hillary Clinton.
Her decisions spread death, destruction and terrorism everywhere she touched.
Among the victims is our late Ambassador, Chris Stevens. He was left helpless to die as Hillary Clinton soundly slept in her bed -- that's right, when the phone rang at 3 o'clock in the morning, she was sleeping.
Ambassador Stevens and his staff in Libya made hundreds of requests for security.
Hillary Clinton's State Department refused them all.
She started the war that put him in Libya, denied him the security he asked for, then left him there to die.
To cover her tracks, Hillary lied about a video being the cause of his death.
Here is what one of the victim's mothers had to say:
"I want the whole world to know it: she lied to my face, and you don't want this person to be president."
In 2009, before Hillary Clinton was sworn in, it was a different world.
Libya was cooperating.
Iraq was seeing a reduction in violence.
Syria was under control.
Iran was being choked by sanctions.
Egypt was governed by a friendly regime that honored its peace treaty with Israel.
ISIS wasn't even on the map.
Fast forward to 2013: In just four years, Secretary Clinton managed
to almost single-handedly destabilize the entire Middle East.
Her invasion of Libya handed the country over to the ISIS barbarians.
Thanks to Hillary Clinton, Iran is now the dominant Islamic power in the Middle East, and on the road to nuclear weapons.
Hillary Clinton's support for violent regime change in Syria has thrown the country into one of the bloodiest civil wars anyone has ever seen – while giving ISIS a launching pad for terrorism against the West.
She helped force out a friendly regime in Egypt and replace it with the radical Muslim Brotherhood. The Egyptian military has retaken control, but Clinton has opened the Pandora's box of radical Islam.
Then, there was the disastrous strategy of announcing our departure date from Iraq, handing large parts of the country over to ISIS killers.
ISIS threatens us today because of the decisions Hillary Clinton has made.
ISIS also threatens peaceful Muslims across the Middle East, and peaceful Muslims across the world, who have been terribly victimized by horrible brutality – and who only want to raise their kids in peace and safety.
In short, Hillary Clinton's tryout for the presidency has produced one deadly foreign policy disaster after another.
It all started with her bad judgment in supporting the War in Iraq in the first place.
Though I was not in government service, I was among the earliest to criticize the rush to war, and yes, even before the war ever started.
But Hillary Clinton learned nothing from Iraq, because when she got into power, she couldn't wait to rush us off to war in Libya.
She lacks the temperament, the judgment and the competence to lead.
In the words of a Secret Service agent posted outside the Oval Office:
"She simply lacks the integrity and temperament to serve in the office…from the bottom of my soul, I know this to be true…Her leadership style – volcanic, impulsive…disdainful of the rules set for everyone else – hasn't changed a bit."
Perhaps the most terrifying thing about Hillary Clinton's foreign policy is that she refuses to acknowledge the threat posed by Radical Islam.
In fact, Hillary Clinton supports a radical 550% increase in Syrian refugees coming into the United States, and that's an increase over President Obama's already very high number.
Under her plan, we would admit hundreds of thousands of refugees from the most dangerous countries on Earth – with no way to screen who they are or what they believe.
Already, hundreds of recent immigrants and their children have been convicted of terrorist activity inside the U.S.
The father of the Orlando shooter was a Taliban supporter from Afghanistan, one of the most repressive anti-gay and anti-women regimes on Earth.
I only want to admit people who share our values and love our people.
Hillary Clinton wants to bring in people who believe women should be enslaved and gays put to death.
Maybe her motivation lies among the more than 1,000 foreign donations Hillary failed to disclose while at the State Department.
Hillary Clinton may be the most corrupt person ever to seek the presidency.
Here is some more of what we learned from the book, Clinton Cash:
A foreign telecom giant faced possible State Department sanctions for providing technology to Iran, and other oppressive regimes. So what did this company do? For the first time ever, they decided to pay Bill Clinton $750,000 for a single speech. The Clintons got their cash, the telecom company escaped sanctions.
Hillary Clinton's State Department approved the transfer of 20% of America's uranium holdings to Russia, while 9 investors in the deal funneled $145 million to the Clinton Foundation.
Hillary Clinton appointed a top donor to a national security board with top secret access – even though he had no national security credentials.
Hillary Clinton accepted $58,000 in jewelry from the government of Brunei when she was Secretary of State – plus millions more for her foundation. The Sultan of Brunei has pushed oppressive Sharia law, including the punishment of death by stoning for being gay. The government of Brunei also stands to be one of the biggest beneficiaries of Hillary's Trans-Pacific Partnership, which she would absolutely approve if given the chance. 
Hillary Clinton took up to $25 million from Saudi Arabia, where being gay is also punishable by death.
Hillary took millions from Kuwait, Qatar, Oman and many other countries that horribly abuse women and LGBT citizens.
To cover-up her corrupt dealings, Hillary Clinton illegally stashed her State Department emails on a private server.
Her server was easily hacked by foreign governments – perhaps even by her financial backers in Communist China – putting all of America in danger.
Then there are the 33,000 emails she deleted.
While we may not know what is in those deleted emails, our enemies probably do.
So they probably now have a blackmail file over someone who wants to be President of the United States.
This fact alone disqualifies her from the Presidency.
We can't hand over our government to someone whose deepest, darkest secrets may be in the hands of our enemies.
National security is also immigration security – and Hillary wants neither.
Hillary Clinton has put forward the most radical immigration platform in the history of the United States.
She has pledged to grant mass amnesty and in her first 100 days, end virtually all immigration enforcement, and thus create totally open borders in the United States.
The first victims of her radical policies will be poor African-American and Hispanic workers who need jobs. They are the ones she will hurt the most.
Let me share with you a letter our campaign received from Mary Ann Mendoza.
She lost her amazing son, Police Sergeant Brandon Mendoza, after he was killed by an illegal immigrant because of the open borders policies supported by Hillary Clinton.
Sadly, the Mendoza family is just one of thousands who have suffered the same fate.
Here is an excerpt from Mrs. Mendoza's letter:
"Hillary Clinton, who already has the blood of so many on her hands, is now announcing that she is willing to put each and every one of our lives in harms' way – an open door policy to criminals and terrorists to enter our country. Hillary is not concerned about you or I, she is only concerned about the power the presidency would bring to her. She needs to go to prison to pay for the crimes she has already committed against this country."
Hillary also wants to spend hundreds of billions to resettle Middle Eastern refugees in the United States, on top of the current record level of immigration.
For the amount of money Hillary Clinton would like to spend on refugees, we could rebuild every inner city in America.
Hillary's Wall Street immigration agenda will keep immigrant communities poor, and unemployed Americans out of work. She can't claim to care about African-American and Hispanic workers when she wants to bring in millions of new low-wage workers to compete against them.
Here are a few things a Trump Administration will do for America in the first 100 days:
Appoint judges who will uphold the Constitution. Hillary Clinton's radical judges will virtually abolish the 2nd amendment.
Change immigration rules to give unemployed Americans an opportunity to fill good-paying jobs
Stand up to countries that cheat on trade, of which there are many
Cancel rules and regulations that send jobs overseas
Lift restrictions on energy production
Repeal and replace job-killing Obamacare -- it is a disaster.
Pass massive tax reform to create millions of new jobs.
Impose tough new ethics rules to restore dignity to the Office of Secretary of State.
There is one common theme in all of these reforms.
It's going to be America First.
This is why the stakes in November are so great.
On Election Day, the politicians stand trial before the people.
The voters are the jury. Their ballots are the verdict. We don't need or want another Clinton or Obama.
Come November, the American people will have a chance to issue a verdict on the politicians that have sacrificed their security, betrayed their prosperity, and sold out their country.
They will have a chance to vote for a new agenda with big dreams, bold ideas and enormous possibilities for the American people.
Hillary Clinton's message is old and tired. Her message is that can't change.
My message is that things have to change – and this is our one chance do it. This is our last chance to do it.
Americans are the people that tamed the West, that dug out the Panama Canal, that sent satellites across the solar system that built the great dams, and so much more.
Then we started thinking small.
We stopped believing in what America could do, and became reliant on other countries, other people, and other institutions.
We lost our sense of purpose, and daring.
But that's not who we are.
Come this November, we can bring America back – bigger and better, and stronger than ever.
We will build the greatest infrastructure on the planet earth – the roads and railways and airports of tomorrow.
Our military will have the best technology and finest equipment – we will bring it back all the way.
Massive new factories will come roaring into our country – breathing life and hope into our communities.
Inner cities, which have been horribly abused by Hillary Clinton and the Democrat Party, will finally be rebuilt.
Construction is what I know -- nobody knows it better.
The real wages for our workers have not been raised for 18 years -- but these wages will start going up, along with the new jobs. Hillary's massive taxation, regulation and open borders will destroy jobs and drive down wages for everyone.
We are also going to be supporting our police and law enforcement -- we can never forget the great job they do.
I am also going to appoint great Supreme Court Justices.
Our country is going to start working again.
People are going to start working again.
Parents are going to start dreaming big for their children again – including parents in our inner cities.
Americans are going to start believing in the future or our country.
We are going to make America rich again.
We are going to make America safe again.
We are going to make America Great Again – and Great Again For EVERYONE.
Thank you.
I'd like to thank Chairman Jeff Miller for his leadership on behalf of those who have served this country in military uniform, and for working with our campaign on developing real solutions for our great Veterans.
Before going further today, however, I would first like to address the contributions of another group who serve this country in uniform: the men and women in blue.
Our Police Officers rush into danger every day to protect our communities, and they often do it thanklessly and under relentless criticism.
They save thousands of lives every year, perform countless public services every day, and yet their names will likely never appear in a single headline or media report.
But I want our nation's police to know, that we thank you, and we support you, and we will always stand with you.
The attack on our Dallas police is an attack on our country.
Our whole nation is in mourning, and will be for a very long time.
Yet, we've also seen increasing threats against our police and a substantial rise in the number of officers killed in the line of duty.
America's police and law enforcement personnel are what separates civilization from total chaos – and the destruction of our country as we know it.
We must remember, the police are needed the most where crime is the highest. Politicians and activists who seek to remove police or policing from a community are hurting the poorest and most vulnerable Americans.
It is time for the hostility against our police, and against all members of law enforcement, to end – and to end right now.
We went through an ugly chapter in our history, during Vietnam, when our troops became the victims of harassment and political agendas. For too many police today, that is their daily reality.
At the same time, the tragic deaths in Louisiana and Minnesota make clear the work that must be done to ensure every American feels that their safety is protected. We were all disturbed by the images we saw.
We must discuss, as well, the ongoing catastrophe of crime in our inner cities. According to the Chicago Tribune, there has already been more than 2,000 shooting victims in Chicago this year alone. This epidemic of violence destroys lives, destroys communities, and destroys opportunity for young Americans.
Violent crime has increased in cities across America. The New York Times described "a startling rise in murders," in our major cities.
Brutal drug cartels are spreading their reach into Virginia and Maryland.
Too many Americans are trapped in fear, violence and poverty.
Our inner cities have been left behind, and I am going to fight to make sure every citizen of this country has a safe home, safe school and safe community.
We must maintain law and order at the highest level or we will cease to have a country.
I am the law and order candidate.
Hillary Clinton, on the other hand, is weak, ineffective, pandering, and, as proven by her recent email scandal, which was an embarrassment not only to her, but to the nation as a whole, she is either a liar or grossly incompetent.
Personally, I think she is both.
Not only am I the law and order candidate, but I am also the candidate of compassion. But you can't have true compassion without providing safety for the citizens of the United States. Every kid in America should be able to securely walk the streets in their own neighborhood.
Everyone will be protected equally and treated justly, without prejudice.
We will be tough, we will be smart, we will be fair – and we will protect all Americans.
Without safety, we have nothing!
It is the job of the next President to Make America Safe Again — For Everyone.
That promise of protection must include taking care of every last Veteran, which was going to be the sole topic of today's speech prior to the attack in Dallas.
The men and women who have served in our armed forces represent the very best of America.
Now is the time to follow their example of unity, public service and selfless devotion to our country.
We made a promise to these heroes. You defend America, and America will defend you.
But that promise has been broken by our politicians, like so many other promises our country has made – not only to its veterans, but to its citizens as a whole.
President Obama has allowed our Veterans Affairs health care system to deny help and support to those who deserve it most.
Hillary Clinton recently said of the VA scandal that "it's not been as widespread as it has been made out to be."
She actually thinks that the Veterans Health Administration is well run – that's because she has been part of the rigged system.
Perhaps it is easy for politicians to lose touch with reality when they are being paid millions of dollars to read speeches to Wall Street executives – instead of spending time with real people in real pain.
The disconnect in America is deep.
There are two Americas: the ruling class, and the groups it favors, and then everyone else.
The VA scandals that have occurred on this Administration's watch are widespread and inexcusable.
An internal memo from a senior VA official describes "lawlessness and chaos," at the Veterans Health Administration, including the payments of $6 billion a year in violation of federal contracting rules.
The memo also says they "waste millions of dollars by paying excessive prices due to breaches of federal laws" and warns that "these unlawful acts may potentially result in serious harm or death to America's Veterans."
Even the White House's own Deputy Chief of Staff described "significant and chronic systemic failures," in Veterans Affairs, including "a corrosive culture that has led to personnel problems across the Department," with "poor management," and "a history of retaliation toward employees raising issues." He said there is a "lack of accountability across all grade levels."
Forty veterans died waiting for care in Phoenix.
Forty different VA facilities nationwide were found to be manipulating and falsifying wait times.
A VA employee who was involved in an armed robbery was kept on staff, as was a convicted sex offender.
The VA spent $8 million on solar panels for a facility knowing they would likely need to be torn down.
The St. Cloud, Minn. VA built a $2.3 million wind turbine in April 2011 that hasn't supplied power since 2012.
Can you imagine the waste and corruption we'll find when we begin a full investigation in January of 2017?
Most of those responsible have still not been held to account.
Fixing this corruption will be one of my highest priorities – and it will happen. It will be fixed.
That begins with a simple promise: every Veteran will get timely access to top-quality care
Veterans should be guaranteed the right to choose their doctor and clinics, whether at a VA facility or at a private medical center.
We must extend this right to all Veterans– not just those who can't get an appointment in 30 days, or who live more than 40 miles from a VA hospital, which is the current policy.
This promise includes guaranteed access to the best available healthcare services for our female Veterans.
We must also do more to help our Veterans find jobs
Every year, large corporations bring in many thousands of low-wage workers from overseas, and across the border, to fill jobs that could easily be filled by our Veterans.
Veterans should come first in the country they fought to protect, and under a Trump Administration they will -- America First, Veterans First.
Veterans' health care must also include the best mental health care.
A shocking 20 Veterans are committing suicide each day, especially our older Veterans.
This is a national tragedy.
The evidence shows that if Veterans are in the system, receiving care, they are much less likely to take their own lives than Veterans outside the system.
That is why we must increase the number of mental health care professionals inside the VA – while ensuring that Veterans can access private mental health care as well.
America must take action to improve mental health services for the country at large. This includes expanding the number of facilities, integrating primary care and mental care professionals, reforming confinement rules, and making it easier for family members who see warning signs to get their loved ones the care they need – especially in emergencies.
One of the most important reforms we can make is accountability
Right now, when VA employees fail our Veterans, you can't discipline them.
That's because of outdated civil service rules in need of reform.
In fact, employees are given bonuses after making bad decisions.
In 2014, the VA awarded $142 million in bonuses to its employees, including bonuses to the executives who oversaw construction of the Denver VA hospital that was more than $1 billion over budget.
Two other VA executives even abused their authority to obtain $400,000 in relocation benefits.
It doesn't have to be this way.
As Veteran Affairs Chairman Jeff Miller said: "The VA is not sacred. The Veteran is."
Here is my 10 step plan to ensure quality, timely care for every Veteran in America:
I will appoint a Secretary of Veterans Affairs who will make it his or her personal mission to clean up the VA.
The Secretary's sole mandate will be to serve our Veterans – not bureaucrats, not politicians, but Veterans. Amazingly, President Obama's VA Secretary recently downplayed concerns about waiting times by saying that people also wait in line at Disneyland.
I am going to use every lawful authority to remove and discipline federal employees or managers who fail our Veterans or breach the public trust.
I am going to ask Congress to pass legislation that ensures the Secretary of Veterans Affairs has the authority to remove or discipline any employee who risks the health, safety or well-being of any Veteran.
I am going to appoint a commission to investigate all the wrongdoing at the VA and then present those findings to Congress as the basis for bold legislative reform.
I am going to make sure the honest and dedicated people in the VA have their jobs protected, and are put in line for promotions.
I will create a private White House Hotline – that is answered by a real person 24 hours a day – to ensure that no valid complaint about VA wrongdoing falls through the cracks.
I will instruct my staff that if a valid complaint is not addressed that the issue be brought directly to me, and I will pick up the phone and fix it myself, if need be.
That's a promise.
We are going to stop giving bonuses to people for wasting money, and start giving bonuses to people for improving service, saving lives and cutting waste.
If an employee finds a smart way to save a large amount of money that also creates better outcomes for our Veterans, then a small, responsible portion of the money saved will be given as a one-time bonus and the rest will be returned to taxpayers.
We are going to reform our visa programs to ensure American Veterans are in the front, not back, of the line.
We are going to increase the number of mental health care professionals, and increase outreach to Veterans outside of the system.
We are going to ensure every Veteran in America has the choice to seek care at the VA, or to seek private medical care paid for by our government.
Never again will we allow a Veteran to suffer or die waiting for the care they so richly deserve.
We need to clean out the corruption in Government, and Hillary Clinton will never be able to do it
She is incompetent, and has proven that time and time again.
Crooked Hillary Clinton is the Secretary of the Status Quo – and wherever Hillary Clinton goes, corruption and scandal follow.
Our country needs change, and she will never give us change.
The fact is, she helped create our rigged system.
Hillary Clinton's America is a country where the elite get one standard of treatment and everybody else gets second-class treatment.
The rigged system refused to prosecute her for conduct that put all of America at risk.
Hillary Clinton went to great lengths to create a private email server and to bypass government security in order to keep her emails from being read by the public and by federal officials.
In other words, she was willing to risk our foreign enemies reading her emails as long as the voting American public could not.
Her conduct was willful, intentional, and unlawful – and her repeated false statements about her conduct prove that she was fully aware of her guilt.
This was not just extreme carelessness with classified material – which is still totally disqualifying. This is calculated, deliberate, premeditated misconduct – followed by a cover-up that included false statements and lies to Congress, the media and the American people.
In fact, when the FBI interviewed her for only 3 hours during the 4th of July weekend, her interview was not recorded, and she was, amazingly, not even put under oath.
She carried out her dangerous email scheme at the same time as her bad judgement and enthusiasm for regime change was unleashing ISIS across the world.
Afterwards, as a further demonstration of guilt, Hillary Clinton erased more than thirty thousand emails as part of the cover-up.
The fact that she got away with all of this could be her single most impressive accomplishment.
When thinking about her e-mail destruction, let's not forget: many foreign and corporate entities, and other special interests, with business before Hillary Clinton's State Department were making massive financial contributions. These contributions were made to both the Clinton Foundation and to the Clintons directly.
If elected, Hillary Clinton would become the first President of the United States who wouldn't be able to pass a background check.
Just look at what the FBI Director said about her – her misconduct is a disgrace and embarrassment to our country.
Clearly, Hillary Clinton thinks she is above the law. Come November, the American people will show her that she is not.
The decades of decay, division and decline will come to an end.
The years of American Greatness will return.
We are going to become, for the first time in a long time, one united country.
We are going to make American Great Again – And Safe Again – For All Americans.
We will dream big and bold and daring things once more.
Let me conclude by paying tribute to every single American hero who has served this country, and most especially those who gave the ultimate sacrifice.
Our debt to them is eternal and everlasting.
We are going to fight for our military and our law enforcement personnel the same way they have fought for us.
We will be a safe, strong, and proud country once again.
Thank you.
Friends, delegates and fellow Americans: I humbly and gratefully accept your nomination for the presidency of the United States.
U.S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.!
Together, we will lead our party back to the White House, and we will lead our country back to safety, prosperity, and peace. We will be a country of generosity and warmth. But we will also be a country of law and order.
Our Convention occurs at a moment of crisis for our nation. The attacks on our police, and the terrorism in our cities, threaten our very way of life. Any politician who does not grasp this danger is not fit to lead our country.
Americans watching this address tonight have seen the recent images of violence in our streets and the chaos in our communities. Many have witnessed this violence personally, some have even been its victims.
I have a message for all of you: the crime and violence that today afflicts our nation will soon – and I mean very soon – come to an end.
Beginning on January 20th of 2017, safety will be restored.
The most basic duty of government is to defend the lives of its own citizens. Any government that fails to do so is a government unworthy to lead.
It is finally time for a straightforward assessment of the state of our nation.
I will present the facts plainly and honestly. We cannot afford to be so politically correct anymore.
So if you want to hear the corporate spin, the carefully-crafted lies, and the media myths the Democrats are holding their convention next week. Go there.
But here, at our convention, there will be no lies. We will honor the American people with the truth, and nothing else.
These are the facts:
Decades of progress made in bringing down crime are now being reversed by this Administration's rollback of criminal enforcement.
Homicides last year increased by 17 percent in America's fifty largest cities. That's the largest increase in 25 years. In our nation's capital, killings have risen by 50 percent. They are up nearly 60 percent in nearby Baltimore.
In the President's hometown of Chicago, more than 2,000 people have been the victim of shootings this year alone. And almost 4,000 have been killed in the Chicago area since he took office.
The number of police officers killed in the line of duty has risen by almost 50 percent compared to this point last year. Nearly 180,000 illegal immigrants with criminal records, ordered deported from our country, are tonight roaming free to threaten peaceful citizens.
The number of new illegal immigrant families who have crossed the border so far this year already exceeds the entire total from 2015. They are being released by the tens of thousands into our communities with no regard for the impact on public safety or resources.
One such border-crosser was released and made his way to Nebraska. There, he ended the life of an innocent young girl named Sarah Root. She was 21 years-old, and was killed the day after graduating from college with a 4.0 Grade Point Average. Number one in her class. Her killer was then released a second time, and he is now a fugitive from the law.
I've met Sarah's beautiful family. But to this Administration, their amazing daughter was just one more American life that wasn't worth protecting. No more. One more child to sacrifice on the order and on the altar of open borders. What about our economy?
Again, I will tell you the plain facts that have been edited out of your nightly news and your morning newspaper: Nearly Four in 10 African-American children are living in poverty, while 58% of African American youth are now not employed. 2 million more Latinos are in poverty today than when President Obama took his oath of office less than eight years ago. Another 14 million people have left the workforce entirely.
Household incomes are down more than $4,000 since the year 2000. Our trade deficit in goods -- think of this -- our trade deficit reached nearly $800 billion last year alone. We're going to fix that.
The budget is no better.
President Obama has doubled our national debt to more than $19 trillion, and growing. And yet, what do we have to show for it? Our roads and bridges are falling apart, our airports are Third World condition, and forty-three million Americans are on food stamps.
Now let us consider the state of affairs abroad.
Not only have our citizens endured domestic disaster, but they have lived through one international humiliation after another. One after another. We all remember the images of our sailors being forced to their knees by their Iranian captors at gunpoint.
This was just prior to the signing of the Iran deal, which gave back to Iran $150 billion and gave us absoltely nothing – it will go down in history as one of the worst deals ever negotiated. Another humiliation came when president Obama drew a red line in Syria – and the whole world knew it meant absolutely nothing.
In Libya, our consulate – the symbol of American prestige around the globe – was brought down in flames. America is far less safe – and the world is far less stable – than when Obama made the decision to put Hillary Clinton in charge of America's foreign policy.
Let's defeat her in November, OK.
I am certain it is a decision President Obama truly regrets. Her bad instincts and her bad judgment – something pointed out by Bernie Sanders – are what caused so many of the disasters unfolding today. Let's review the record.
In 2009, pre-Hillary, ISIS was not even on the map.Libya was stable. Egypt was peaceful. Iraq was seeing a big, big reduction in violence. Iran was being choked by sanctions. Syria was somewhat under control.
After four years of Hillary Clinton, what do we have? ISIS has spread across the region, and the world. Libya is in ruins, and our Ambassador and his staff were left helpless to die at the hands of savage killers. Egypt was turned over to the radical Muslim brotherhood, forcing the military to retake control. Iraq is in chaos. Iran is on the path to nuclear weapons. Syria is engulfed in a civil war and a refugee crisis now threatens the West. After fifteen years of wars in the Middle East, after trillions of dollars spent and thousands of lives lost, the situation is worse than it has ever been before.
This is the legacy of Hillary Clinton: death, destruction, terrorism, and weakness.
But Hillary Clinton's legacy does not have to be America's legacy. The problems we face now – poverty and violence at home, war and destruction abroad – will last only as long as we continue relying on the same politicians who created them in the first place. A change in leadership is required to produce a change in outcomes. Tonight, I will share with you my plan of action for America.
The most important difference between our plan and that of our opponents, is that our plan will put America First. Americanism, not globalism, will be our credo. As long as we are led by politicians who will not put America First, then we can be assured that other nations will not treat America with respect, the respect we deserve.
The American People will come first once again. My plan will begin with safety at home – which means safe neighborhoods, secure borders, and protection from terrorism. There can be no prosperity without law and order. On the economy, I will outline reforms to add millions of new jobs and trillions in new wealth that can be used to rebuild America.
A number of these reforms that I will outline tonight will be opposed by some of our nation's most powerful special interests. That is because these interests have rigged our political and economic system for their exclusive benefit. Believe me, it's for their benefit.
Big business, elite media and major donors are lining up behind the campaign of my opponent because they know she will keep our rigged system in place. They are throwing money at her because they have total control over every single thing she does. She is their puppet, and they pull the strings.
That is why Hillary Clinton's message is that things will never change...never ever. My message is that things have to change – and they have to change right now. Every day I wake up determined to deliver for the people I have met all across this nation that have been neglected, ignored, and abandoned.
I have visited the laid-off factory workers, and the communities crushed by our horrible and unfair trade deals. These are the forgotten men and women of our country. And they are forgotten, but they're not going to be forgotten long. People who work hard but no longer have a voice.
I am your voice!
I have embraced crying mothers who have lost their children because our politicians put their personal agendas before the national good.

How great are our police? And how great is Cleveland?
I have no patience for injustice, no tolerance for government incompetence, no sympathy for leaders who fail their citizens.
When innocent people suffer, because our political system lacks the will, or the courage, or the basic decency to enforce our laws – or still worse still, has sold out to some corporate lobbyist for cash – I am not able to look the other way, and I won't look the other way.
And when a Secretary of State illegally stores her emails on a private server, deletes 33,000 of them so the authorities can't see her crime, puts our country at risk, lies about it in every different form and faces no consequence – I know that corruption has reached a level like never ever before in our country.
When the FBI Director says that the Secretary of State was "extremely careless" and "negligent," in handling our classified secrets, I also know that these terms are minor compared to what she actually did. They were just used to save her from facing justice for her terrible terrible crimes.
In fact, her single greatest accomplishment may be committing such an egregious crime and getting away with it – especially when others who have done far less, have paid so dearly. When that same Secretary of State rakes in millions and millions of dollars trading access and favors to special interests and foreign powers, I know the time for action has come.
I have joined the political arena so that the powerful can no longer beat up on people that cannot defend themselves. Nobody knows the system better than me, which is why I alone can fix it. I have seen firsthand how the system is rigged against our citizens, just like it was rigged against Bernie Sanders – he never had a chance.
But his supporters will join our movement, because we will fix his biggest single issue: trade deals that strip us of our jobs, and strip us of our wealth as a country. Millions of Democrats will join our movement because we are going to fix the system so it works justly for each and every American. In this cause, I am proud to have at my side the next Vice President of the United States: Governor Mike Pence of Indiana. And a great guy.
We will bring the same economic success to America that Mike brought to Indiana, which is amazing. He is a man of character and accomplishment. He is the man for the job. The first task for our new Administration will be to liberate our citizens from the crime and terrorism and lawlessness that threatens their communities.
America was shocked to its core when our police officers in Dallas were so brutally executed. In the days after Dallas, we have seen continued threats and violence against our law enforcement officials. Law officers have been shot or killed in recent days in Georgia, Missouri, Wisconsin, Kansas, Michigan and Tennessee.
On Sunday, more police were gunned down in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Three were killed, and three were very very badly injured. An attack on law enforcement is an attack on all Americans. I have a message to every last person threatening the peace on our streets and the safety of our police: when I take the oath of office next year, I will restore law and order to our country. Believe me, believe me.
I will work with, and appoint, the best and prosecutors and law enforcement officials to get the job properly done. In this race for the White House, I am the law and order candidate.
The irresponsible rhetoric of our President, who has used the pulpit of the presidency to divide us by race and color, has made America a more dangerous environment for everyone than frankly I have ever seen and anybody in this room has ever watched or seen.
This Administration has failed America's inner cities. Remember: it has failed America's inner cities. It's failed them on education. It's failed them on jobs. It's failed them on crime. It's failed them at every level.
When I am President, I will work to ensure that all of our kids are treated equally, and protected equally.
Every action I take, I will ask myself: does this make better for young Americans in Baltimore, in Chicago, in Detroit, in Ferguson who have as much of a right to live out their dreams as any other child America? Any other child.
To make life safe in America, we must also address the growing threats we face from outside the country: We are going to defeat the barbarians of ISIS, and we are going to defeat them fast.
Once again, France is the victim of brutal Islamic terrorism. Men, women and children viciously mowed down. Lives ruined. Families ripped apart. A nation in mourning.
The damage and devastation that can be inflicted by Islamic radicals has been proven over and over – at the World Trade Center, at an office party in San Bernardino, at the Boston Marathon, and a military recruiting center in Chattanooga, Tennessee. And many, many other locations.
Only weeks ago, in Orlando, Florida, 49 wonderful Americans were savagely murdered by an Islamic terrorist. This time, the terrorist targeted LGBTQ community – no good and we're going to stop it.
As your President, I will do everything in my power to protect our LGBTQ citizens from the violence and oppression of a hateful foreign ideology – beleive me.
And as a Republican, it is so nice to hear you cheering for what I just said. Thank you.
To protect us from terrorism, we need to focus on three things.
We must have the best intelligence gathering operation in the world. We must abandon the failed policy of nation building and regime change that Hillary Clinton pushed in Iraq, Libya, Egypt and Syria. Instead, we must work with all of our allies who share our goal of destroying ISIS and stamping out Islamic terrorism and doing it now, doing it quickly. We're going to win. We're going to win fast.
This includes working with our greatest ally in the region, the State of Israel.
Recently I have said that NATO was obsolete, because it did not properly cover terror, and also, that many of the member countries were not paying their fair share. As usual, the United States has been picking up the cost. Shortly thereafter, it was announced that NATO will be setting up a new program in order to combat terrorism -- a true step in the right direction.
Lastly, and very importantly, we must immediately suspend immigration from any nation that has been compromised by terrorism until such time as proven vetting mechanisms have been put in place. We don't want them in our country.
My opponent has called for a radical 550% increase in Syrian -- Think of this. Think of this. This is not believable, but this is what's happening -- refugees on top of existing massive refugee flows coming into our country under President Obama. She proposes this despite the fact that there's no way to screen these refugees in order to find out who they are or where they come from.
I only want to admit individuals into our country who will support our values and love our people. Anyone who endorses violence, hatred or oppression is not welcome in our country and never ever will be.
Decades of record immigration have produced lower wages and higher unemployment for our citizens, especially for African-American and Latino workers. We are going to have an immigration system that works, but one that works for the American people.
On Monday, we heard from three parents whose children were killed by illegal immigrants Mary Ann Mendoza, Sabine Durden, and my friend Jamiel Shaw. They are just three brave representatives of many thousands who have suffered so gravely. Of all my travels in this country, nothing has affected me more deeply than the time I have spent with the mothers and fathers who have lost their children to violence spilling across our border, which we can solve. We have to solve it.
These families have no special interests to represent them. There are no demonstrators to protest on their behalf. My opponent will never meet with them, or share in their pain, believe me. Instead, my opponent wants Sanctuary Cities. But where was sanctuary for Kate Steinle? Where was Sanctuary for the children of Mary Ann, and Sabine, and Jamiel? Where was sanctuary for all the other -- oh, it is so sad to even be talking about it because we can fix this problem so quickly -- Americans who have been so brutally murdered, and who have suffered so so horribly?
These wounded American families have been alone. But they are alone no longer. Tonight, this candidate and the whole nation stand in their corner to support them, to send them our love, and to pledge in their honor that we will save countless more families from suffering and the same awful fate.
We are going to build a great border wall to stop illegal immigration, to stop the gangs and the violence, and to stop the drugs from pouring into our communities. I have been honored to receive the endorsement of America's Border Patrol Agents, and will work directly with them to protect the integrity of our lawful, lawful, lawful immigration system. Lawful.
By ending catch-and-release on the border, we will stop the cycle of human smuggling and violence. Illegal border crossings will go down. We will stop it. It won't be happening very much anymore. Believe me. Peace will be restored. By enforcing the rules for the millions who overstay their visas, our laws will finally receive the respect they deserve.
Tonight, I want every American whose demands for immigration security have been denied – and every politician who has denied them – to listen very very closely to the words I am about to say.
On January 20th of 2017, the day I take the oath of office, Americans will finally wake up in a country where the laws of the United States are enforced. We are going to be considerate and compassionate to everyone.
But my greatest compassion will be for our own struggling citizens.
U.S.A.! U.S.A.! U.S.A.!
My plan is the exact opposite of the radical and dangerous immigration policy of Hillary Clinton. Americans want relief from uncontrolled immigration. Communities want relief.
Yet Hillary Clinton is proposing mass amnesty, mass immigration, and mass lawlessness. Her plan will overwhelm your schools and hospitals, further reduce your jobs and wages, and make it harder for recent immigrants to escape the tremendous cycle of poverty that they're going through right now and make it almost impossible to join the middle class.
I have a different vision for our workers. It begins with a new, fair trade policy that protects our jobs and stands up to countries that cheat, of which there are many. It's been a signature message of my campaign from day one, and it will be a signature feature of my presidency from the moment I take the oath of office.
I have made billions of dollars in business making deals – now I'm going to make our country rich again. Using the richest people in the world, which our country has, I am going to turn our bad trade agreements into great trade agreements. America has lost nearly-one third of its manufacturing jobs since 1997, following the enactment of disastrous trade deals supported by Bill and Hillary Clinton.
Remember, it was Bill Clinton who signed NAFTA, one of the worst economic deals ever made by our country -- or, frankly, any other country.
Never, ever again.
I am going to bring our jobs back to Ohio and Pennsylvania and New York and Michigan and all of America – and I am not going to let companies move to other countries, firing their employees along the way, without consequences. Not going to happen anymore.
My opponent, on the other hand, has supported virtually every trade agreement that has been destroying our middle class. She supported NAFTA, and she supported China's entrance into the World Trade Organization – another one of her husband's colossal mistakes and disasters.
She supported the job killing trade deal with South Korea. She has supported the Trans-Pacific Partnership. The TPP will not only destroy our manufacturing, but it will make America subject to the rulings of foreign governments. And it's not going to happen. I pledge to never sign any trade agreement that hurts our workers, or that diminishes our freedom and independence. I will never, ever sign bad trade deals. America fist, again! America first! Instead, I will make individual deals with individual countries.
No longer will we enter into these massive transactions, with many countries, that are thousands of pages long – and which no one from our country even reads or understands. We are going to enforce all trade violations against any country including through the use of taxes and tariffs, against any country that cheats.
This includes stopping China's outrageous theft of intellectual property, along with their illegal product dumping, and their devastating currency manipulation. They are the greatest that ever came about; they are the greatest currency manipulators ever! Our horrible trade agreements with China and many others, will be totally renegotiated. That includes renegotiating NAFTA to get a much better deal for America – and we'll walk away if we don't get the deal that we want.
We are going to start building and making things again.
Next comes the reform of our tax laws, regulations and energy rules. While Hillary Clinton plans a massive -- and I mean massive -- tax increase, I have proposed the largest tax reduction of any candidate who has declared for the presidential race this year – Democrat or Republican. Middle-income Americans and businesses will experience profound relief, and taxes will be greatly simplified for everyone, and I mean everyone.
America is one of the highest-taxed nations in the world. Reducing taxes will cause new companies and new jobs to come roaring back into our country. Believe me, it will happen, and it will happen fast. Then we are going to deal with the issue of regulation, one of the greatest job-killers of them all. Excessive regulation is costing our country as much as $2 trillion a year, and we will end it very very quickly. We are going to lift the restrictions on the production of American energy. This will produce more than $20 trillion in job creating economic activity over the next four decades.
My opponent, on the other hand, wants to put the great miners and steel workers of our country out of work and out of business – that will never happen with Donald Trump as President. Our steelworkers and our miners are going back to work again. With these new economic policies, trillions of dollars will start flowing into our country.
This new wealth will improve the quality of life for all Americans – We will build the roads, highways, bridges, tunnels, airports, and the railways of tomorrow. This, in turn, will create millions more jobs. We will rescue kids from failing schools by helping their parents send them to a safe school of their choice.
My opponent would rather protect bureaucrats than serve American children. And that's what she's doing, and that's what she's done. We will repeal and replace disastrous Obamacare. You will be able to choose your own doctor again. And we will fix TSA at the airports which is a total disaster!
Thank you. Thank you.
We are going to work with all of our students who are drowning in debt to take the pressure off these young people just starting out their adult lives.
We will completely rebuild our depleted military, and the countries that we protect, at a massive loss, will be asked to pay their fair share.
We will take care of our great veterans like they have never been taken care of before. My just-released Ten Point Plan has received tremendous veteran support. We will guarantee those who serve this country will be able to visit the doctor or hospital of their choice without waiting five days in line and dying.
My opponent dismissed the VA scandal as being not widespread – one more sign of how out of touch she really is. We are going to ask every Department Head in government to provide a list of wasteful spending projects that we can eliminate in my first 100 days. The politicians have talked about it, I'm going to do it.
We are also going to appoint justices to the United States Supreme Court who will uphold our laws and our Constitution.
The replacement for our beloved Justice Scalia will be a person of similar views and judicial philosophies. Very important. This will be one of the most important issues decided by this election. My opponent wants to essentially abolish the 2nd amendment. I, on the other hand, received the early and strong endorsement of the National Rifle Association and will protect the right of all Americans to keep their families safe.
At this moment, I would like to thank the evangelical and religious community because I'll tell you what, the support they have given me, and I'm not sure I totally deserve it has been so amazing and has had such a big reason for me being here tonight. So true. They have so much to contribute to our politics, yet our laws prevent you from speaking your minds from your own pulpits. An amendment, pushed by Lyndon Johnson, many years ago, threatens religious institutions with a loss of their tax-exempt status if they openly advocate their political views. Their voice has been taken away.
I am going to work very hard to repeal that language and protect free speech for all Americans. We can accomplish these great things, and so much else – all we need to do is start believing in ourselves and in our country again. Start believing. It is time to show the whole world that America Is Back – bigger, and better and stronger than ever before.
In this journey, I'm so lucky to have at my side my wife Melania and my wonderful children, Don, Ivanka, Eric, Tiffany, and Barron: you will always be my greatest source of pride and joy. And by the way, Melania and Ivanka -- did they do a job? My Dad, Fred Trump, was the smartest and hardest working man I ever knew. I wonder sometimes what he'd say if he were here to see this and to see me tonight.
It's because of him that I learned, from my youngest age, to respect the dignity of work and the dignity of working people. He was a guy most comfortable in the company of bricklayers, carpenters, and electricians and I have a lot of that in me also. I love those people.
Then there's my mother, Mary. She was strong, but also warm and fair-minded. She was a truly great mother. She was also one of the most honest and charitable people I have ever known, and a great judge of character. She could pick 'em out from anywhere.
To my sisters Mary Anne and Elizabeth, my brother Robert and my late brother Fred, I will always give you my love you are most special to me. I have loved my life in business.
But now, my sole and exclusive mission is to go to work for our country – to go to work for all of you. It's time to deliver a victory for the American people. We don't win anymore, but we are going to start winning again. But to do that, we must break free from the petty politics of the past.
America is a nation of believers, dreamers, and strivers that is being led by a group of censors, critics, and cynics.
Remember: All of the people telling you that you can't have the country you want, are the same people that wouldn't stand -- I mean, they said Trump doesn't have a chance of being here tonight. Not a chance! The same people. Oh, we love defeating those people, don't we? Love it, love it, love it. No longer can we rely on those same people in politics and in the media, who will say anything to keep a rigged system in place. Instead, we must choose to Believe In America.
History is watching us now.
It's waiting to see if we will rise to the occasion, and if we will show the whole world that America is still free and independent and strong. I'm asking for your support tonight so that I can be your champion in the White House.
My opponent asks her supporters to recite a three-word loyalty pledge. It reads: "I'm With Her". I choose to recite a different pledge.
My pledge reads: "I'M WITH YOU – THE AMERICAN PEOPLE."
I am your voice.
So to every parent who dreams for their child, and every child who dreams for their future, I say these words to you tonight: I'm With You, and I will fight for you, and I will win for you.
To all Americans tonight, in all our cities and towns, I make this promise:
We Will Make America Strong Again.
We Will Make America Proud Again.
We Will Make America Safe Again.
And We Will Make America Great Again.
God bless you, and good night! I love you!
Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Unbelievable. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. It's a great honor. Thank you. 
Amazing. Amazing. What great people.
We're going to bring back our jobs to Pennsylvania. We're going to bring back our jobs to the United States. 
Going to bring back our jobs, folks. I've looked at the numbers and I see what's happening in Pennsylvania. I see what's happening all over our country.
You look at New York state, you look at New England, you look anywhere in the country where you want to go to, all over it's the same. Manufacturing way down, jobs way down. You go to other countries, they're taking our companies, they're taking our jobs.
People are right now working harder than they've ever worked. Eighteen years ago they made more money in real wages, 18 years, think of it. Eighteen years ago many of the people in this incredibly big room, and thank you for being here, you know it's 93 degrees out. 
And they still have a lot of people trying to get in, I don't know if they can get them in. Should we let them in? Just let them in. 
But 18 years ago, people were making more money in real wages than they make today. And today they're working two jobs, some people are working three jobs. So they're older, and they're working harder, and they're making less money, all right? A friend of mine, I've been telling this story over the last month because it's better than going to Wharton or better than going to Harvard and asking them to do a study, because you learn it in three minutes.
But let me just tell you. Right now, Mexico and other countries are building facilities, plants, the likes of which you've never seen. We're going to build the wall, don't worry, we're going to build the wall, we're going to build it, we're going to build it. 
But a friend of mine, and actually a supporter, big supporter, great guy. He builds plants, that's what he does, he builds plants. He doesn't want to build apartments, he doesn't want to build office buildings, he wants to build plants. And he's just about the biggest there is. And I said how are things going? He said very well, how are you doing in the U.S.? Not good. How are you doing in Mexico?
He said Donald do you want to see, it's the eighth wonder of the world. They are building plants, the likes of which I've never seen. He's building some of the greatest plants, big—you look at Ford moving vast operations to Mexico. The plants. You look at—look at, take a look. By the way, millions of jobs, thousands of companies over the years, they've left us. And we have a few things. We have unemployment, we have empty plants, I saw up in New York state, I saw it in Pennsylvania, you were great to meet, you voted a big victory for Donald Trump, thank you. 
That was a big victory. I mean I assumed I was going—if I don't win Pennsylvania—and by the way, I was talking to our great Congressman, and where is he? He's here some place, where is he? 
He loves the people, and I have to say, of all of Pennsylvania he wants to see this state do well. Thank you. But just talking back to a few of my friends that live here, we have a few of the friends and we see what's happened with General Electric where they're cutting way back. Not going to happen. And you know why they're cutting back, it's one reason. Because we don't take care of our miners and we're not producing coal.
And they don't need to make those big, big beautiful, you could call them locomotives I guess, right? Whatever the hell they are, they're big and they're powerful and they don't need them like they used to because we don't make our government work for us. They're not working for us. They're working for others, they're not working for us. So when General Electric goes out and you see the numbers, I see the numbers, and it's about coal, so I just left parts of Virginia and West Virginia, and the coal industry's decimated.
The miners are out of work, they're totally out of work. I mean there will be no such thing as coal in this country pretty soon. And we're talking clean coal, we're talking clean coal.
So I was with the miners, we have such tremendous support, West Virginia, the mining parts of Virginia. All over, Ohio, because Hillary Clinton made the statement not so long ago. A number of months she said, we're going to put the mines and miners out of business. All right? Going to put the mines and the miners – so 
So, we're not going to let that happen. We're not going to let that happen and we're not going to let it happen in Pennsylvania because you know what? A lot of your miners have already lost their jobs, but you have a lot of other jobs that are very reliant on the mines. Like, as an example, General Electric. And what we're going to do, folks, is going to be so special. We're going to bring it back. We're going to bring back our jobs, we're going to bring back our companies. 
When a company wants to leave our country to go to another country and think they're going to make their product, and because our politicians are weak, stupid, taken care of by lobbyists, special interests—they're taken care of by lobbyists, they're taken care of by donors and special interests. That's what—you know, a friend of mine—very smart guy—said—I can't believe it. We're talking about a deal that took place about a month ago.
He said, I can't believe they could have gotten that through. I said, Why can't you believe it? Well, it's so bad for the country. I said, Yeah, but it's good for the politician because they're taken care of by their lobbyists and their donors and the special interests.
So even though you say we want, as an example, General Electric to produce more, if they don't want to or if for some reason one of the donors of crooked Hillary Clinton doesn't want that to happen, even though it's great for Erie, even though it's great you, even though it's great for the state of Pennsylvania, then it's not going to happen, folks. It's not going to happen.
And by the way—and I have to tell you this. So when they think they're going to take our companies are rip them out of—as an example—this area or this state or any other state and go to Mexico and build massive new plants and employ people other than you, and you're going to lose your jobs or you're going to now get two part- time jobs that don't add up to half of what you used to make. That stuff isn't happening anymore. So here's what happens. They're going to build that plant. Now, if I were here five years ago and if President Obama put me and maybe secretary of keeping business in the United States—that's my title, secretary of keeping business in the United States. 
I mean, I like the sound of secretary of defense better. Oh, and by the way, we're going to build our military. We're going to be very strong. 
Really. And we're going to take care of our vets. We're going to take care of our vets, believe me. 
But I like the sound—I like the sound of secretary of Defense. I like the sound of secretary of the Treasury. I like the sound of secretary of State. But I'll tell you, would I be good at keeping jobs over here. Would I be... 
I'll tell you this. I just have to say the Bernie Sanders protesters were much, much stronger. They had much more passion, I have to say. 
All right. You know what's interesting? If I could speak to them for like five minutes—we want a strong military, we want to take care of our people, we want good education, we want good housing, we want good healthcare. What do we want? We're all in for the same thing. 
Really amazing. Really amazing. So I'll be your secretary of keeping companies in the United States, right? So, I would go to a company like Carrier Air Conditioner, which decided to leave Indianapolis, Indiana, and I would say here's the story.
We think it's wonderful that you're negotiating with Mexico. I'm sure you're going to have a wonderful plant, but here's what's going to happen. If you build that plant and you fire all of these people, 1400 people who were so great to me.
Indiana, I won that in a landslide. Actually, the timing was good. I won it in a landslide because I know what to do. Hillary doesn't know what to do. Did you see her yesterday? She has no clue about what we're talking about. Folks, she has no clue. She has no clue. Crooked Hillary. She doesn't know anything about it and, by the way, if she did, she couldn't do it anyway because her donors don't want to do it. There's reasons.
But look, look. I would go to them and say just to keep them. Just to keep them. And I wouldn't even care that much. I'll tell you why. Ready? I'd say here's the story.
If you leave, in this case, Indianapolis, you're going to go to Mexico, you're going to make your air conditioning units. Every single unit that you make that crosses our now very, very strong border we're going to charge you 35 percent of the cost of that unit. OK? Thirty five percent. Right?
So simple. Thirty five percent the cost of that unit. We hope you enjoy your new plant. Very hot weather out there, very hot. We hope you enjoy your new plant, but 35 percent is coming to us. Now, here's what's going to happen if they haven't moved yet. A lot of them have moved.
We've lost thousands and thousands of companies, we've lost millions of jobs - too late. I should have been there 10 years ago. Nobody would have left. Nobody would have left because you need the right messenger, you know, I'm your messenger in terms of this movement.
But you need the right person saying it. So, here's what's going to happen. Normally they'd call up whoever it is that was putting the little order down like the new president and they'd have one of their lobbyists call up and they'd say Hillary, I'm sorry, you can't do that, they gave you $2 million for your campaign. Can't do that, Hillary. OK, I won't do that.
With me, I'm putting my money up, folks. I'm putting my money up. Putting my money up. We're raising money for Reince and for the RNC, but that's for a lot of other reasons. We are putting - I'm putting a lot of money up. I financed my - I funded, not financed, I wish I financed, right? I funded but I funded my primaries and I spent less than anybody else in terms of the measures. So, here's a story - wouldn't that be nice?
I spent less and won in a landslide. Other people spent much, much more. Three, four, five times more and they came in seventh. Who the hell do you want to have as your president, right? Right? Right? Oh, boy, and then they don't like me - couple of them, most of them have really supported us, but some of them just can't get over it. You know what I say to them? Get over it. We're just having fun. Get over it.
You signed a pledge, I hereby guarantee that I will endorse whoever wins - you know, the funny thing, all those pledges, you know they were signed for different - they were signed so that I would sign it. And I would have honored it, I will say. Even if I wasn't fond or didn't like - I would have honored it because a pledge is a very important thing. But here's the thing. So, we are going to take these companies that haven't left - now, I'm looking at your numbers folks, you're not doing too well.
You're not doing too well here. Pennsylvania has lost one in three manufacturing jobs since - you know, that's massive, since NAFTA. NAFTA was signed by Bill Clinton and I believe it's the single worst trade document ever signed in the history of our country and probably in the history of our world.
It's one of the most one-sided documents that I've ever seen. And it allowed Mexico and places to do unbelievably well at our expense. And did you see where say, I'm going to renegotiate NAFTA, I'm going to—TPP disaster. Ok, don't worry. Don't worry.
And Hillary was in favor of TPP. She said it's the gold standard. Thank you for reminding me. I like this guy. It's the gold standard. TPP. Transpacific Partnership. It is going to be—I don't think you can be worse than NAFTA honestly. But it's going to be as bad as NAFTA. So TPP, she said it is the gold standard. She's reading it from a teleprompter. It is the gold standard—oh, boy. Our country is in trouble. Our country is in trouble. Our country is in trouble.
So she said it's the gold standard. But when she heard me make a speech, as I understand it. And she heard me talking very negatively about it. As an example, they don't talk devaluation, which is the single greatest tool that these countries are using to kill the United States, including China. They devalue their currency. Well, it doesn't happen. Number one thing is not mentioned.
So complicated, this agreement. Too many countries. By the way, I believe trade. I believe in trade deals. One country at a time. Boom. Boom. Boom. You got to see the lines. We'll have one line. And if they don't do well.
If they don't behave themselves, if they want to start devaluing their currency all over the place, very simple, we write them a notice like we do in business. We serve them with a 30 day notice. 
And by the way, you just saw, how great are our police, right? 
Law and order. We need law and order. We need law and order and we will have law and order. Our police, our firemen - but our police do a fantastic job. They are not recognized for the great job they do. If they have 500,000 incidents all positively, beautifully handled, one bad thing happens, that one bad thing is on the news for two weeks and it's a disgrace. It's a disgrace.
So we should be very thankful for the job they do. So, Pennsylvania is losing a lot of its business. Right now, we're sitting here, we're talking - oh, here's another one. Go home to Mom. Go home to Mom. 
And your mother is voting for trump! She's voting for Trump. It's true. It's true.
By the way, just to interject - so I was told this whole area is Democratic, meaning Democrat. And I was told that by a lot of different people outside and then they said I can't believe that you have 10,000 people, you have people outside trying to get in.
They said, the came up to me, this is - happens to be a Democrat who I happen to know is a good guy—came up to me and said I've never seen anything like it. It always goes Democrat. Is that a correct statement? Said, you are going to win Erie in a and the surrounding area - you're going to win in a landslide. Gonna be a landslide. 
Because people are tired of lies, they're tired of losing their jobs, they're tired of seeing their companies being ripped out and going to other places. They're tired of China coming in and dropping steel all over the place to put your companies out of business, so we have to go to China to get our steel, which is happening very quickly.
And that's why the steel workers are with me, that's why the miners are with me, that's why the working people, electricians, the plumbers, the sheetrockers, the concrete guys and gals, they're all - they're with us.
And I grew up, you know they say, you know you're really rich, how come you sort of relate to these people? Well, my father built houses and I used to work in these houses and I got to know the electricians, I got to know all these people, I got to know the plumbers, the steamfitters—I got to know them all.
And I liked them better than the rich people that I know. I know a lot of rich people. It's true. They're better. I like them better.
So, anyway—and, we are going to put people back to work. We're not playing games. And it's going to go quickly. By the way, it's going to go quickly.
But look at this, OK. So, Erie, has lost one in three manufacturing jobs. You know that, all I—you do—I flew over, you're looking at the plants, plants that 25 years ago, 20 years ago, 15 years ago, some two years ago, were vibrant.
But no plant two years ago was too vibrant because it was down to half, down to a quarter, down to a tenth, and then ultimately they closed, but you see them. They are falling over. The rain, the sleet, the snow, the wind. These are great buildings that are falling apart. Don't feel bad, all over the country. Upstate New York is a disaster, which Hillary Clinton said that she was going to fix.
OK, so the Washington Post is extraordinarily dishonest and that's fine. But they wrote a story, I couldn't believe I saw this story, they talked about Hillary Clinton. It was a headline, Hillary Clinton and when she ran for the United States Senator from New York, she said to the people in upstate New York, which was starting to really have problems because of her husband's bill NAFTA.
And companies were leaving, tremendous unemployment, tremendous problems, making nothing and she said I will turn it around, I will create 200,000 jobs, we're going to do a great job. Guess what? She got elected, she did nothing. And the only ones that benefited were the consultants and the people that helped her out. It is a disaster. upstate New York is right now worse than anything you have in the state of Pennsylvania, she did nothing.
And I watched her yesterday, which was hard to do, because she is boring, OK? 
I watched her yesterday talking about—you know what's funny? I said I'm going to renegotiate NAFTA and they said what happens if you can't make a deal, I said we're going to terminate, we're getting out. And 
So I've been saying that and I've been saying we're going to renegotiate different trade deals, and we're going to make great trade deals and all this and she's never said that. All of a sudden, two days ago, I will renegotiate trade deals. She's not going to do it, folks. She's going to renegotiate trade deals the same way she was going to put 200,000 jobs in upstate New York.
It turned out to be a total fantasy and I have to tell you, I respect the Washington Post for writing one bad story. Because you what they're doing? And Reince was alluding to it a little bit, the only way she gets elected is if they don't report on her. They don't show her. They have me on so much television. There's CNN, you talk about dishonesty, it's called the Clinton—wait—it's called the Clinton News Network, CNN. Now, think of it, Clinton is
She's hardly ever on. So yesterday, they have yesterday, a scandal with the emails, another one. I'm not talking about the 33,000 emails that she deleted or got rid of. Can you imagine what was on those emails? Can you imagine? I love that. Can you imagine what was on those emails, 33,000 emails were deleted. And she said well it had to do with the wedding and yoga.
I give two to yoga, I give five to the wedding. I'll tell you, the lies, the deception. We're running like they run right now a third world country folks, OK? You saw what happened, it's running like a third world country, we're being talked about all over the world, nobody can believe it.
In fact, when they were going over the charges against Hillary Clinton, one after another after another after another, however, and yet other people, their lives have been destroyed for doing much less, all right?
Their lives have been destroyed. So now they have a big scandal in New York. It's in the New York papers, but very little. Pay right? Pay for play. And it's horrifying, it's horrifying. Our government is for sale. Our government is for sale by a crooked person. And what they're doing is they're trying to not talk about her. Take a look. You go to CNN as an example. Story after story about Trump. Story—Trump. Trump. Trump. Trump.
And yesterday, it was announced that people are tired of negative—the hit jobs and CNN's starting to do very poorly. That's good. I like that. I like that. And I have to say, Fox has been treating us fairly. Fox has been fair. But CNN has been catastrophic. It's so dishonest.
But somebody was explaining to me their theory. If they don't report on her, people aren't going to know how bad she is. Look at her news conference. She hasn't had a news conference in like 260 days. That last one wasn't a news conference. That was a few of her friends. They asked her a question. What did she say about the circuit, right? Let me tell you, if I ever said that, short- circuited, if I ever said I short-circuited, it would be headlines all over the world. They would call for the death penalty. 
Can you imagine if I said that I short-circuited? I mean, I stand up here for months in front of massive crowds, she gets 300 people going to her events. She gets 300 people and then she reads something from a teleprompter and then she leaves and she goes home and she goes to sleep. 
And then she wakes and she goes again. And I'm telling you—and nobody does anything about it. Now me, I stand up here—I'm not looking at notes. I'm not reading teleprompters. Not easy. Not easy. Not easy. 
But—but—remember—but—and if I make one mistake  say, he mention something wrong. He got a wrong date. It's like headlines all over. She can say she short-circuited up here. I don't want a president who short-circuits. Is that OK? I don't want it. I don't want a president who short-circuits. 
We've got to deal with ISIS. We've got to deal with China. We've got to deal with lots of people. They're not short-circuiting. But I don't want somebody that short-circuits. So let me just tell you—let me just tell you.
Over the last little while—you know, every time, it's always a big deal. When I said that Obama—and of course, I'm being sarcastic. And they know that because after I said that, I said he's the MVP, he's going to collect his MVP award. OK.
So I said Obama is the founder of ISIS. The founder. 
And these dishonest media people—they're the most dishonest people. They said oh, did he mean that? Didn't he mean that? And after that, I'd say a lot—in fact, they like him so much because he's been so weak and so bad. I mean, he let this happen. They had eight states. They had eight countries. They're now in 28 countries. They're expanding.
So I said the founder of—obviously, I'm being sarcastic. Then—then—but not that sarcastic, to be honest with you. 
And they all said, he should not say that. They should call him an enabler. Call him an enabler. He's an enabler. I said, that doesn't sound the same. He's an enabler. People are going to say what's—these people are the worst. But listen, so I said the founder of ISIS. And in fact, very soon he's going over to pick up his most valuable player award. Did I say that? I say it all the time. TRUMP: So they knew I was being sarcastic. By now they're analyzing. Did I really mean that? How could I say that? These people are the lowest form of life. I'm telling you. The lowest. 
They are the lowest form of humanity. Not all of them. They have about 25 percent that are pretty good, actually. But most of them.
OK. So, here's the story. So Erie has lost a lot. Right? You know that, right? Hang in, don't leave. I promise we can fix it so fast. We will stop these countries from taking our jobs. We will stop these countries from taking our companies. Hold on.
Our jobs will come back. Now, I came up with a great plan. I'm lowering corporate taxes so our companies stay, so I don't even have to make the call. The corporate inversions - you know, we have companies that have, they say, two and a half trillion dollars outside of our comp - they can't get their money back. We don't let them.
Everybody agrees that we should do it. Republicans, Democrats, everybody agrees.
What's the - look, why do we not want them to bring money back? You know why? Because we don't have a president that can sit the leaders of both parties around a table and in about five minutes let them say let's bring this money back in so we can work it in this country, right?
That's what it is. So we're going to bring that money back in, we're going to lower taxes, we're going to keep our companies - and if our companies want to leave, they're going to pay a nice big beautiful tax to get their product back in.
OK? That's what's going to happen. So, the existing U.S. trade deficit with TPP participating nations has already cost Pennsylvania 68,000 jobs, folks. No more, folks.
We're not going to be stupid people any more, we're going to be the really, really smart people. It's going to be America first. America first. America first. First. 
So, the destruction of manufacturing in Pennsylvania was caused by Hillary Clinton's and her husband's disastrous trade policies.
I mean, you take a look at what she's done. At the bidding of her corporate funders, Hillary Clinton has backed every job-killing trade deal for decades. She has received so much money, she has approved virtually every tax increase put before her.
Yesterday - you see 1.3 trillion in tax increases. We're the highest taxed nation in the land, essentially. We're the highest taxed nation in the world. Anywhere in the world.
And of the industrialized nations, we're far and away the highest taxed nation. And she's proposing a massive tax increase. Folks, we can't do it. It's going to make our country non-competitive - it's already non-competitive.
It's going to make our country non-competitive and we're not going to do it. I'm proposing a massive tax decrease for the middle class, for business, and businesses are going to pour in - not since Ronald Reagan has anything like this been proposed.
Businesses instead of leaving because their taxes are so high, they're going to stay. I might not even have to make those calls. Now, if I do, I will, meaning my people will. I'll do some, I love doing it. I would love telling some guy you're not moving. Well, Mr. President, sir, we would like to move to Mexico. You're not moving and if you do you pay the 35 percent tax. You say Well, in that case, I'm not moving, I'm not moving. In that case, I'm not moving. So easy.
So, your coal industry, your steel industry, which has been ravaged, your General Electrics of the world, which have been ravaged, just ravaged, we're going to end it and I'll tell you why. Over the years, I've watched. For years, for 10 years, for 12 years, for 15 years, beyond Obama, and I've watched as politicians talked about stopping countries from leaving - companies from leaving our states. You need strength, is right.
Our states. And I watched. Remember they give the low-interest loans? Here's a low-interest loan if you stay in Pennsylvania, here's a zero-interest loan, you don't have to pay, here's a this, here's tax abatement of any kind you want, we'll help your - it doesn't work, folks, that's not what they need. They have money.
They want to go out, they want to move to another country and because our politicians are so dumb, they want to sell their product to us and not have any retribution, not have any consequences.
So all of that's over and I think you understand it and Hillary can't do it. Number one, she can't do it because the mentality isn't there. She can't do it. No, the mentality.
You know, she said fairly recently, I don't like Donald Trump's tone. His tone isn't nice. And I said, here we have a country that's being taken advantage of by every country in the world. Our businesses are being taken. Our jobs being taken. Everything's being taken.
Here we have a world where ISIS is chopping off the heads of Christians and many others, drowning people in steel cages, burying people in the sand, and we have somebody up there who wants to be our president that says, I don't like Donald Trump's tone. 
Folks, we better get smart, folks. Hey, look, let's see what happens. We better get smart. We better get smart. 
We better get smart. We better get tough. And if we're not smart and we're not tough, we're not going to have a country left. And one of the things I have to talk to you about before I leave is our borders. Illegal immigrants are pouring into our country. In fact, I brought something for you people. I brought—I brought—I had to do this. I didn't want to depress you. OK, look. The Clinton legacy.
Nearly one in three manufacturing jobs in Erie, PA—Erie, PA, sound familiar—have been lost since Clinton allowed a certain deal with China to happen. Now, look at this—look at this chart. This is 2001, not long ago. This is now. Congratulations, folks. I hope you're doing well. OK? I hope you're doing well. I don't want to hurt them. I hope you're doing well.
But you know what? You can't do well. When you have a government that is so stupid, that is so—that is so incompetent, you can't do it. Here's another one, folks. This is what we're talking about. Syrian refugees—we have no idea who they are, where they're coming from, no paperwork. You saw what happened in San Bernardino. You saw what happened—frankly, take a look at all over the world. Take a look at what's happening.
If we don't get smart and we don't get smart fast—Barack Obama is allowing Syrian refugees to come into our country by the thousands. Now, I have as big a heart as anybody in this room and I want to build safe zones and I want, by the way, the Gulf states to pay for it because they've got plenty of money and they're not doing much. OK? We'll supervise it. OPM, other people's money. We'll supervise it, right? We'll supervise it.
But they're going to pay for it because we're protecting these people. If it weren't for the United States, those countries wouldn't even exist. They'd be gone. The power we have is so enormous, but we have people that don't know what they're doing. We have an incompetent president. We have people that don't know what they're doing.
So look at this. Look at this. Syrian refugees admitted to the United States on a monthly basis. Look what's happening. Look what's happening. 
Now, in all fairness, we want to help people. Can't take a chance. San Bernardino, they walk in. They start shooting. Paris, the best, the toughest gun laws in the world, Paris, France. They walk in. They kill 130 people. They wound so gravely hundreds of people.
Now, let me just tell you because well—we're on the Second Amendment, right, Second Amendment. If we had in San Bernardino—if we had in San Bernardino or in Orlando or someplace, somebody in that room like this guy right here, right, or that guy with the blue make America great again hat on or the one with the red make America—or that woman with the beautiful blonde hair. I wish I had hair that looked like that. 
But if we had somebody and they happened to have a gun, San Bernardino, they see him come in—first of all, if they knew there was a gun where the bullets would be flying in the other direction, they probably wouldn't have got  in, OK? But let's assume they did.
The carnage would not have been what the carnage was. We have to protect our Second Amendment. Hillary Clinton wants to kill our second amendment. 
She wants to kill it. 
So here's our chart. And I was thinking about doing a—I bring—every once in a—like, one in ten I do it, you know a lot of these. I love the people. We have such a movement going on. Who likes the snake? Do you know the snake? Do you like it? Who likes the snake? Here we are with this. We know bad things are going to happen. We know as we allow more and more people to come in from these terror areas, bad things are going to happen.
Has anybody heard the snake? Not that many? Should I do it again? So think of this, folks, think of this, think of it. This is what is going on in our country with our borders. And by the way, we're going to have a strong border, we're going to have a wall, it's going to be a powerful wall that Mexico's going to pay for the wall. 
And we have no choice, and we have no choice. But think of this. This is now a situation where this was written by Al Wilson many years ago and I read it and I said you know that really pertains to what's happening to the United States and it has to do with being fooled, it has to do with a lot of different things but when you're listening to this, think of our border, think of the people that we're letting in by the thousands and Hillary Clinton, you saw those numbers right? With the chart, it's through the roof.
Hillary Clinton wants to allow 550 percent more coming into our country. How stupid are we? So, are you ready, you ready, you like it, you sure? On her way to work one morning, down the path along the lake, a tender hearted woman saw a poor, half-frozen snake, his pretty colored skin had been all frosted with the dew. Oh well, she cried, I'll take you in and I'll take care of you.
Take me in, oh tender woman, take me in for heaven's sake, take me in oh tender woman, sighed the broken snake. She wrapped him up, all cozy, in a curvature of silk. Then laid him by the fireside with some honey and some milk. Now she hurried home from work that night. As soon as she arrived, she found that pretty snake she'd taken in, had been revived. Take me in oh tender woman, take me in for heaven's sake.
Take me in oh tender woman, sighed the broken snake. Now she clutched him to her bosom. You're so beautiful, she cried. But if I hadn't brought you in by now, you certainly would have died. Now she stroked his pretty skin and then she kissed and held him tight. But instead of saying thank you, that snake gave her a vicious bite. Take me in oh tender woman, take me in for heaven's sake.
Take me in oh tender woman, sighed the vicious snake. I saved you, I saved you, I saved you, cried that woman. And you've bit me, heaven's why. You know your bite is poisonous and now I'm going to die. Oh shut up, silly woman, said the reptile with a grin. You knew damn well I was a snake before you took me in. 
Get ready folks, get ready. We're led by stupid people. We're led by leaders and you know honestly, I didn't need this. This I didn't need. I had a nice life, built a great company—a great company, some of the great real estate assets of the world. I may never see them. You know if I win, I may never see them again, and I love them—all over the world.
But you know what? This is so important. And I watched what was happening with the Iran deal, and I watched what was happening with jobs, and I watched what was happening with trade where China makes $500 billion in trade deficits with us.
I look and I saw. Take a look at Mexico. You know, the politicians say, you'll never, ever be able to get Mexico to allow you to build a wall. I say trust me. Now, they don't say that anymore. Now they say, they won't put the money up to build a wall. So easy. Mexico—our trade deficit is massive, massive. They make a fortune off the stupidity of the United Stated.
Mexico will 100 percent—you hear—100 percent pay for the wall, 100 percent. 
OK? One hundred percent. But the story of the snake is what's happening to our country. We're letting people in. Many of these people hate us. Many of these people don't have good thoughts. And you see what one person can do—one sick wacko can do in Orlando. And then you see his father sitting behind Hillary Clinton with a big smile on his face—with a big, fat smile on his face, right?
And he was wearing a red hat, and I said, I hope that's not one of my hats. It wasn't. I was concerned. I saw that hat. I said, I hope it doesn't say make America great again. Bad guy—bad guy. Horrendous son—horrendous son.
So here's the story, folks. We have to win—we have to win Pennsylvania, so important. So 
Hillary Clinton is run by people that do this very professionally. They're very good. They keep her out of the spotlight. She doesn't talk to reporters—very rarely. She doesn't do press conferences. She doesn't expose whatever's going on up here. She doesn't—which isn't good. She doesn't expose her mind to questions. And what they want to do is they want to try and fake it through.
We need strength. We need toughness. We need a strong temperament. We need a strong tone. At the same time—at the same time, let me tell you—at the same time, we need real, big, beautiful heart because we have to straighten out healthcare. Obamacare's going to be repealed and replaced.
It's going to repay—did you see—did you see what's happening with Obamacare? Did you see where the numbers are going up 30, 40, and 50 percent? Wait until you see what happens on November 1st. Now, on November 1st, they're trying to delay it.
But you're going to get increases, the likes of which probably no country, nobody has ever seen. OK? Anybody in the history of healthcare—in Texas, through going through Blue Cross Blue Shield, they just had almost a 50 percent increase in their premiums.
And the deductibles are so high that unless you get hit by one of those General Electric locomotives and you live for like a long time prior to death, you'll never, ever be able to use your healthcare—the healthcare. Because here's what's happened—here's what's happened. The deductible is so high, you never get to use it.
So, you're spending money, your deductibles raises by 17, 18, 19 percent. But now, it's going to go really bad, really bad. It's going to die of its own volition, but we have to kill it first. It's killing our country, it's killing our jobs—it's killing our jobs.
So, here's the story, folks—folks. We have to win Pennsylvania. We have to beat this professional group of people that are running her for her own—for their own purposes. We have to win Pennsylvania. We win Pennsylvania, we're going to win it. You know, we're up in Florida. We're doing well in Ohio. And I'm hearing we're doing well here. We'll find out.
Here's the story... 
Here's the story. We have to win the state of Pennsylvania. I went to school here. My kids went to school here. We're going to win Pennsylvania.
If we win Pennsylvania, I'll tell you what. We are very much on our way. You know, the Republicans do have a tougher path, just so you—not my fault. Not my fault. It's a tougher path.
For the presidency, it's just a tougher, winding road. But if win Pennsylvania, we win Florida where we're doing really well, I think we can win Ohio, it'll be over. It'll be over. It'll be over. 
So, on November 8th, you have to get out and vote or do some balloting, and I don't care—look, here's the story. If you're not feeling well, if you're so sick, if you go to your doctor and he goes, I'm sorry sir, but you've only got a few weeks left. And it's November 1st. And he gives you the ultimate word, not looking good. You haven't got long left. I don't care and nobody else in this room cares. You have to on November 8th get out of bed and get out and vote, right? Get out and vote. 
Now, in a lot of cases, you can do your early ballots too. All I'm telling you though—look, folks. I'm just saying your jobs have been taken. Your military and all of the other things, we're going to save your Second Amendment, which is protection, we're going to get of Common Core, you're going to bring your education locally. 
All things—I'm going to repeal and replace Obamacare. All these things. We're going to take care of our vets. But here's the story, folks. For you people in particular because you have been devastated.
Supreme Court, he said. Yes. Yes. Thank you. Who did that? Who said that? Thank you.
By the way, and I have to just stop for a second. Look, Supreme Court Justice Scalia great. Was supposed to live for a long time. He died. So you have already an empty. This next president could have the most Supreme Court nominations of any president. Could take more justices than—it could be up to five. Probably going to be three, could be four, could be five. OK?
If Hillary Clinton gets to put hard-leaning left judges on the Supreme Court, number one, your Second Amendment will be gone. Our country will never ever be the same. We will have problems like we've never had before and you won't have—you will have a whole different deal going, which we don't want, believe me.
So, here's the story. If for no other reason, I am going to put—and you know, I've picked through Federalist society—we picked 11 Supreme Court justices. We're going to add probably four more, all vetted through Federalists, through Heritage, highly—I actually got very good marks. We're going to pick these people or people very like that.
So, here's the story, here's the story. You ready? We don't win anymore, you people don't win, that's for sure. You just have to look at the statistics for jobs. We're going to start winning again. We're going to win so much that you're going to get sick and tired of winning.
You're going to say Mr. President—you're going to send the congressman to see me in Washington. He's going to say, Mr. President, we have to do something. The people of Pennsylvania, and in particular our friends in Erie, they're sick and tired of winning. They can't stand winning so much. Mr. President, we just don't want to win that much. We really want to give other nations like it used to be, where it's good for them and bad for us, at least a little bit.
And I'm going to say—I'm going to say, Mr. Congressman, I don't think you know your people very well, they want to win. And we want to win. And you want to win. And we're going to win. We're going to win so much. We're going to win with our military, we're going to knock the hell out of ISIS. 
We're going to win for our vets. We're going to take of our vets. We're going to win at the border, we're going to build a wall, we're going to have Mexico pay, believe me 100 percent. We're going to win with education. We're going to win for our Second Amendment. We're going to win on all of the things we discussed. We're going to win again and you're going to be proud of your country again.
We're not going to be the people that are laughed at all over the world for not knowing what we're doing, for allowing others to come in and just strip us of what we have. 
We are going to win. We are going to be America first. 
We are going to make America great again. And it's going to happen quickly. 
Thank you everybody, thank you. 
Thank you, everybody, thank you very much. It's great to be with you this afternoon and today we begin a conversation on how to make America safe again. In the twentieth century, the United States has defeated fascism, Nazism and communism. Now, a different threat faces our world: radical Islamic terrorism.
This summer, there's been an ISIS attack launched outside the warzones of the Middle East--hard to believe--every eighty-four hours. Here in America, we have seen one brutal attack after another: thirteen were murdered and thirty-eight wounded in the assault on Fort Hood. The Boston Marathon bombing wounded and maimed sixty-four people, and ultimately left five dead, including two of our great police officers . In Chattanooga, Tennessee, five unarmed Marines--unbelievable people, by the way--were shot and killed at a military recruiting center.
Last September, fourteen innocent Americans were gunned down at an office party in San Bernardino; another twenty-two were very gravely injured. In June, forty-nine Americans were executed at the Pulse nightclub in Orlando . Another fifty-three were badly injured. It was the worst mass shooting in our history, and the attack, by far, the worst on the LGBTQ community, and I'll tell you what: we can never, ever allow this to happen again. 
In Europe--thank you--in Europe we have seen the same carnage and bloodshed afflicted upon our closest allies. In January of 2015, a French satirical newspaper, Charlie Hebdo, was attacked for publishing cartoons of the prophet Mohammed. Twelve were killed, including two police officers, and 11 were wounded. Two days later, four were murdered in a Jewish delicatessen. In November of 2015 terrorist went on a shooting rampage in Paris that slaughtered 130 people, and wounded another 368 people, some in very, very, very bad shape today.
France is suffering gravely. And the tourism industry is being massively affected in the most negative way. In March of this year terrorists detonated a bomb in Brussels airport killing 32 and injuring 340 people. This July in the South of France an Islamic terrorist turned his truck into an instrument of mass murder, plowing down and killing 85 men, women and children and wounding 308 people.
Terrible. Among the dead were two Americans, a Texas father and his 11-year-old son. A few weeks ago in Germany a refugee armed with an axe wounded 5 people in a gruesome train attack. Only days ago an ISIS killer invaded a Christian Church in Normandy, France forced an 85- year-old priest to his knees. A priest who was beloved, who was beloved; before cutting his throat and just unthinkable other things.
Overseas ISIS has carried out an absolute atrocity and one after another. Children slaughtered, girls sold into slavery, men and women burned alive, crucifixions, beheadings, and drownings, ethnic minorities targeted for mass execution. Holy sites desecrated. Christians driven from their homes and hunted for extermination. ISIS rounding up what it calls 'Nation of the Cross', 'Nation of the Cross' in a campaign of absolute and total genocide.
We cannot let this evil continue.  Thank you. Thank you.
Nor can we let the hateful ideology of radical Islam, it's oppression of women, gays, children and non-believers be allowed to reside or spread within our own countries.  We will defeat radical Islamic terrorism just as we have defeated every threat we've faced at every age and before. But we will not, we will not, remember this, defeat it with closed eyes or silenced voices. We have a president that doesn't want to say the words.
Anyone who cannot name our enemy is not fit to lead our country.  Anyone who cannot condemn the hatred, oppression and violence of radical Islam lacks the moral clarity to serve as our president.  The rise of ISIS is the direct result of policy decisions made by President Obama and Secretary of State Clinton. Let's look back at the Middle East at the very beginning of 2009 before the Obama-Clinton administration took over.
Libya was stable. Syria was under control. Egypt was ruled by a secular president and an ally of the United States.
Iraq was experiencing a reduction in violence. The group that would become what we now call ISIS was close to being extinguished. Iran was being choked off by economic sanctions.
Fast forward to today. What we have--and think of this--and the decisions made by the Obama/Clinton group have been absolutely disastrous.
Libya is in ruins. Our ambassador and three other really brave Americans are dead. And ISIS has gained a new base of operations.
Syria is in the midst of a disastrous civil war. ISIS controls large portions of territory. A refugee crisis now threatens Europe and the United States.
In Egypt, terrorists have gained a foothold in the Sinai desert near the Suez Canal, one of the most essential waterways of the world. Iraq is in chaos. And ISIS is on the loose. ISIS has spread across the Middle East and into the West.
In 2014, ISIS was operating in seven nations. They were in seven nations. Terrible, but that's what it was.
Today they're fully operational in 18 countries with aspiring branches in six more for a total of 24. And many believe that number is actually 28 to 30 countries. They don't even know.
The situation is likely worse than the public has any idea. A new congressional report reveals that the Administration has downplayed the growth of ISIS with 40 percent of analysts saying they had experience efforts to manipulate their findings in trying to make it look much better than it is. It's bad.
At the same time, ISIS is trying to infiltrate refugee flows into Europe and to the United States. Iran, the world's largest state sponsor of terrorism, is not flush with $150 billion in cash released by the United States. Plus if you remember from two weeks ago, another $400 million in actual cash that was obviously used for ransom.
Worst of all, the nuclear deal puts Iran, the number one state sponsor of radical Islamic terrorism, on a path to nuclear weapons. In short, the Obama/Clinton foreign policy has unleashed ISIS, destabilized the Middle East, and put the nation of Iran, which chants, "death to America", in a dominant position of regional power and in fact aspiring a dominant world power.
It all began in 2009 with what has become known as President Obama's global apology tour. We all remember. We all remember.  In a series of speeches, President Obama described America as arrogant, dismissive, derisive, and a colonial power. He was describing us.
He informed other countries that he would be speaking up about America's past errors. He pledged that we would no longer be a senior partner that sought to dictate our terms. He lectured CIA officers of the need to acknowledge their mistakes, and described Guantanamo Bay as a rallying cry for our enemies.
Perhaps no speech was more misguided than President Obama's speech to the Muslim world, delivered in Cairo, Egypt, 2009. I remember it well.
In winning the Cold War, President Ronald Reagan repeatedly touted the superiority of freedom over communism and called the USSR the Evil Empire. Yet when President Obama delivered his address in Cairo, no such moral courage could be found or would be found. Instead of condemning the oppression of women and gays in many Muslim nations, and the systematic violations of human rights, or the financing of global terrorism, President Obama tried to draw an equivalency between our human rights record--and remember this, our human rights--and theirs.
The records are unbelievable and unmistakable.
His naive words were followed by even more naive actions. The failure to establish a new status of forces agreement in Iraq and the election-driven timetable for withdrawal surrendered our gains in that country and led directly to the rise of ISIS without question. 
The failures in Iraq were compounded by Hillary Clinton's disaster, total disaster, in Libya. President Obama has since said that he regrets, and really regrets, Libya and the mistake he made. He considers it his worst mistake. According to then-Secretary of Defense Robert Gates, the invasion of Libya was nearly a split decision, but Hillary Clinton's forceful advocacy for the intervention was the deciding factor. That's why we went in.
With one episode of bad judgment after another, Hillary Clinton's policies launched ISIS onto the world stage. Yet, as she threw the Middle East into violent turmoil, things turned out really to be not so hot for our world and our country. The Middle East in particular.
The Clintons made almost $60,000 in gross income while she was secretary of state. It is unbelievable. Incident after incident proves again and again Hillary Clinton lacks the judgment--as said by Bernie Sanders--stability and temperament and the moral character to lead our nation. 
Importantly, she also lacks the mental and physical stamina to take on ISIS and all of the many adversaries we face. Not only in terrorism, but in trade and every other challenge we must confront to turn our great country around. 
It is now time for a new approach. Our current strategy of nation- building and regime-change is a proven, absolute failure. We have created the vacuums that allow terrorism to grow and thrive. I was an opponent of the Iraq War from the beginning. A major difference between me and my opponent. Though I was a private citizen whose personal opinions on such matters were really not sought, I nonetheless publicly expressed my private doubts about the invasion. I was against, believe me.
Three months before the invasion I said in an interview with Neil Cavuto to whom I offer my best wishes for a speedy recovery, that "perhaps we shouldn't be doing it yet. And that the economy is a much bigger problem."
In August of 2004, very early, right after the conflict, I made a detailed statement to Esquire Magazine in an interview. Here's the quote in full. "Look at the war in Iraq and the mess we're in. I would never have handled it that way." This was right after the invasion. "Does anybody really believe that Iraq is going to be a wonderful democracy where people are going to run down to the voting box and gently put in their ballot and the winner is happily going to go and step up and lead the country? C'mon."
I then continued, "Two minutes after we leave there's going to be a revolution and the meanest, toughest, smartest most viscous guy, in this case, guy, will take over. And he'll have weapons of mass destruction which Saddam Hussein did not have.
"What was the purpose of this whole thing? Hundreds and hundreds of young people killed. And what about the people coming back with no arms and no legs? Not to mention, in all fairness, the other side. The tremendous damage done. All those Iraqi kids who've been blown to pieces. And it turns out that all of the reasons for the war were blatantly wrong. All of this death and destruction for nothing."
So I've been clear for a long time that we should not have gone in. But I have been just as clear in saying what a catastrophic mistake Hillary Clinton and President Obama made with the reckless way in which they pulled out.
After we had made those hard fought sacrifices and gains we should have never made such a sudden withdrawal on a timetable advertised to our enemies. They said, we're moving out, here's our time, here's our date. Who would do this but an incompetent president?
Al Qaeda in Iraq had been decimated. And Obama and Clinton gave it new life and allowed it to spread all across the world. By that same token President Obama and Hillary Clinton should have never attempted to build a democracy in Libya, to push for immediate regime change in Syria or to support the overthrow of Mubarak in Egypt.
One more point on this. I have long said that we should have kept the oil in Iraq.  I said it over and over and over again. Another area where my judgment has been proven correct. I just said it so many times, virtually every time I was interviewed, keep the oil, keep the oil.
According to CNN, ISIS made as much as $500,000 in oil sales in 2014 alone. That's before they really got started. Fueling and funding its reign of terror. If we had controlled the oil like I said we should, we could have prevented the rise of ISIS in Iraq, both by cutting off a major source of funding and through the presence of U.S. forces necessary to safeguard the oil and vital infrastructure products necessary for us to have the oil.
I was saying this constantly and consistently to whomever would listen. I said, "Keep the oil. Keep the oil. Keep the oil. Don't let somebody else get it."  If they had listened to me then we would have had the economic benefits of the oil which I wanted to use to help take care of the wounded soldiers and families of those who died in the war.  In addition to which thousands of lives would have been saved. This proposal by its very nature would have left soldiers in place of our assets. We would have had soldiers there guarding this valuable supply of oil. In the old days, when we won a war, to the victor belonged the spoils.  Instead, all we got from Iraq and our ventures in the Middle East, was death, destruction and tremendous financial loss. But it's time to put the mistakes of the past behind us and chart a new course. 
If I become president, the era of nation-building will be brought to a very swift and decisive end.  Thank you. Our new approach--which must be shared by both parties in America, by our allies overseas and by our friends in the Middle East--must be to halt the spread of radical Islam. All actions should be oriented around this goal and any country which shares this goal will be our ally. Very important. Some don't share this goal. We cannot always choose our friends but we can never fail to recognize our enemies. 
As president, I will call for an international conference focused on this goal. We will work side by side with our friends in the Middle East, including our greatest ally Israel.  We will partner with King Abdullah of Jordan and the president of Egypt, President Sisi, and all others who recognize this ideology of death that must be extinguished. 
We will also work very closely with NATO on this new mission. I had previously said that NATO was obsolete because it failed to deal adequately with terrorism. Since my comments, they have changed their policy and now have a new division focused on terror threats. Very good. Very, very good.
I also believe that we could find common ground with Russia in a fight against ISIS. Wouldn't that be a good thing? Wouldn't that be a good thing?  They, too, have much at stake in the outcome in Syria, and have had their own battles with Islamic terrorism just as bad as ours. They have a big, big problem in Russia with ISIS.
My administration will aggressively pursue joint and coalition military operations to crush and destroy ISIS. International cooperation to cut off their funding. Expanded intelligence sharing, and cyber warfare to disrupt and disable their propaganda and recruiting. Their recruiting is taking place right now, and they're setting records. It's got to be stopped. 
We cannot allow the internet to be used as a recruiting tool and for other purposes by our enemy. We must shut down their access to this form of communication, and we must do it immediately--immediately. 
Unlike Hilary Clinton, who has risked so many lives with her careless of handling of sensitive information, my administration will not telegram exactly military plans and what they are.  And by the way, what's happened with her 33,000 e-mails is an absolute disgrace to the United States of America. 
I've often said that the great General Douglas MacArthur and the great General George Patton would be in a state of shock if they were alive today to see the way President Obama and Hillary Clinton tried to recklessly announce their every move before it happens. Like they did in Iraq, so that the enemy can prepare and adapt. Their enemy says, "Thank you."
The fight will not be limited to ISIS. We will decimate Al- Qaeda. And we will seek to starve funding for Iran-backed Hamas and Hezbollah.  So important. We can use existing U.N. Security Council resolutions to apply new and even stronger sanctions. Military, cyber and financial warfare will all be necessary to dismantle Islamic terrorism.
But we must use ideological warfare as well. Very important. And they use it on us, better than we have ever even thought of using it on them. But that will change.
Just as we won, just as we won the Cold War in part by exposing the evils of communism and the virtues of free markets, so too must we take on the ideology of radical Islam. While my opponent accepted millions of dollars in foundation donations from countries where being gay is an offense punishable by prison or death, my administration will speak out against the oppression of women, gays and people of different beliefs. 
Our administration would be a friend to all moderate Muslim reformers in the Middle East and will amplify their voices. This includes speaking out against the horrible practice of honor killings, where women are murdered by their relatives for dressing, marrying or acting in a way that violates fundamentalist teachings. Over 1,000 Pakistani girls are estimated to be the victims of honor killings by their relatives each year.
Recently a prominent Pakistani social media star was strangled to death by her brother on the charge of dishonoring the family. In his confession, the brother took pride in the murder and said, "Girls are born to stay home and follow traditions." Shockingly, this is a tradition that has reached our own shores. One such case, and many, many cases have happened--where one involves an Iraqi immigrant who was sentenced to 34 years in jail for running over his own daughter, claiming she had been "too Westernized."
To defeat Islamic terrorism we must also speak our forcefully against a hateful ideology that provides the breeding ground for violence and terrorism to grow. It's a breeding ground. It's a terrible, terrible breeding ground.
A new immigration policy is needed immediately and as well.  The common thread linking the major Islamic terror attacks that have recently occurred on our soil--9/11, the Fort Hood shooting, the Boston bombing, the San Bernardino attack, the Orlando attack--is that they have involved immigrants or the children of immigrants.
Clearly, new screening procedures are needed. A review by the U.S. Senate Immigration Subcommittee has identified 380 foreign-born individuals charged with terrorism or terrorism-related offenses between 9/11 and 2014, and many more since then, and this year is a record for identification. It's gotten worse, far worse.
We also know that ISIS recruits refugees after their entrance into the country, as we have seen with the Somali refugee population in Minnesota.
Beyond terrorism, as we have also seen in France, foreign populations have brought their anti-Semitic attitudes with them. In Cologne, Germany on New Years, we have seen the reports of sexual violence and assault far greater than anybody knows.
Pew polling shows that in many of the countries from which we draw large number of immigrants--extreme views about religion such death penalty--and for those who are involved--the death penalty is very, very common if you don't have the faith that they demand you have.
A Trump administration will establish a clear principle that will govern all decisions pertaining to immigration, and we will be tough, and we will be even extreme.  We should only admit into this country those who share our values and respect our people. In the Cold War, we had an ideological screening test. The time is overdue to develop a new screening test for the threats we face today. I call it extreme vetting. I call it extreme--extreme vetting.
Our country has enough problems. We don't need more, and these are problems like we've never had before. ] In addition to screening out all members of the sympathizers we must also screen out any with hostile attitudes toward our country or its principles, or who believe that Sharia law should supplant American law.  Those who do not believe in our Constitution or who support bigotry or hatred will not be admitted for immigration into our country.  Only those who we expect to flourish in our country, and to embrace a tolerant American society should be issued visas.  To put these new procedures in place, we will have to temporarily suspend immigration from some of the most dangerous and volatile regions of the world, that have a history of exporting terrorism, nor for us! Not for us. 
Thank you. Thank you. As soon as I take office, I will ask the State Department and the Department of Homeland Security to identify a list of regions where adequate screening cannot take place, there are many such regions. We will stop processing visas from those areas until such time as it is deemed safe to resume, based on new circumstances or new procedures. The size of current immigration flows are simply too large to perform adequate screening.  We admit about 100,000 permanent immigrants from the Middle East every year . Beyond that, we admit hundreds of thousands of temporary workers and visitors from the same regions--hundreds of thousands . If we don't control the numbers, we can't perform adequate screening. There's no way it can take place. 
By contrast, my opponent wants to increase--which is unbelievable, no matter who you are, where you come from--wants to increase the flow of Syrian refugees by 550% over what they are now.  The United States Senate Subcommittee on Immigration estimates that Hillary's plan would mean roughly 620,000 refugees from all current refugee-sending nations in her first term , assuming no cuts to other refugee programs--so it could get worse! This would be additional to all other non-refugee immigration. Unbelievable numbers. Unbelievable numbers. The Subcommittee estimates her plan would impose a lifetime cost of roughly $400 billion when you include the cost of healthcare, welfare, housing, schooling and other entitlement benefits that are excluded from the State Department's placement figures. Think of this: $400 billion. In short, Hillary Clinton wants to be America's Angela Merkel.  And you know what a disaster this massive immigration has been to Germany and the people of Germany. Crime has risen to levels that no one thought they would ever, ever see. It is a catastrophe. We have enough problems in our country. We don't need more.
Lastly, we will need to restore common sense to our security procedures. Another common feature of the past attacks that have occurred on our soil is that warning signs were totally ignored. The 9/11 hijackers had fraud all over their visa applications. Almost every one of them. It said practically in big bold letters "fraud". And nobody saw it. The Russians warned us about the Boston bombers, here on political asylum, and the attackers were even twice interviewed by the FBI. Very sad.
The female San Bernardino shooter, on her--on her statements, and everything that she said: she was here on a fiancйe visa, which most people have not even heard of, from Saudi Arabia, and she wanted to support very openly jihad online. These are the people we're taking in.
A neighbor saw suspicious behavior--bombs on the floor, and other things--but didn't warn authorities because they said they didn't want to be accused of racial profiling. Now, many are dead and many more are gravely wounded.
The shooter in Orlando reportedly celebrated in his classroom after 9/11 . He, too, was interviewed by the FBI. His father, a native of Afghanistan, supported the oppressive Taliban regime, and expressed anti-American views very strongly , and by the way, was just seen sitting behind Hillary Clinton with a big fat smile on his face, all the way through her speech.  He obviously liked what she had to say. It's called: weakness, weakness. It's called stupidity, and we've had it. 
The Fort Hood shooter delivered a presentation to a room full of mental health experts before the attacks in which he threw out one red flag after another. He even proclaimed that we "love death more then you love life". Not good. These warning signs were ignored because political correctness has replaced common sense in our society.  Thank you. Thank you.
That is why one of my first acts as president will be to establish a commission on radical Islam, which will include reformers voices in the Muslim community, who will hopefully work with us. We want to build bridges and erase divisions. The goal of the commission will be to identify and explain to the American public the core convictions and beliefs of radical Islam, to identify the warning signs of radicalization, and to expose the networks in our society that support radicalization. This commission will be used to develop new protocols for local police officers, federal investigators and immigration screeners. And while I'm at it, we should give a hand to our great police officers and law enforcement officials.  Thank you. Thank you.
We will also keep open Guantanamo Bay and place a renewed emphasis on human intelligence. Drone strikes will remain part of our strategy, but we will also seek to capture high-value targets to gain needed information to dismantle their organizations.  Foreign combatants will be tried in military commissions. 
Finally, we will pursue aggressive criminal or immigration charges against anyone who lends materiel support to terrorism. There will be consequences for those people. There will be very serious consequences.  Similar to the effort to take down the mafia, this will be the understood mission of every federal investigator and prosecutor in the country.  To accomplish a goal, you must state a mission. The support networks for radical Islam in this country will be stripped out and removed, one-by-one, viciously if necessary--viciously if necessary. Immigration offices will also have their powers restored. Those have been taken away. Those who are guests in our country that are preaching hate will be asked to return home immediately and if they don't immediately, we will return them home.
To make America safe again, we must work together again. Our victory in the Cold War relied on a bipartisan and international consensus. That is what we must have to defeat radical Islamic terrorism. 
But just like we couldn't defeat communism without acknowledging that communism exists, or explaining its horrible evils, we can't defeat radical Islamic terrorism unless we do the exact same thing. We have to explain that it exists, and explain the difficulties. We have to have a leader that can do that, and we do not have that now.
But this also means that we have to promote the exceptional virtues of our own way of life. We have an exceptional country, an exceptional way of life. But it's being tread on by sick, sick people. And expecting that as newcomers come into our society, they will likewise have respect and do the same. Pride in our institutions, our history and our values should be taught by parents and teachers and impressed upon all of those that come into our society and want to join our society. 
Assimilation is not an act of hostility, but an expression of compassion. Our system of government and our American culture is the best in the world, and we'll produce the best outcomes for all who adopt it.  Thank you. Thank you.
This approach will not only make us safer, but bring us closer together as a country. Renewing the spirit of Americanism will help heal the divisions in our country, of which there are so many. We have a divider as president. We call him the Great Divider. It's the thing he best.  It will do so by emphasizing what we have in common, not what pulls us apart.
This is my pledge to the American People: as your president, I will be your single greatest champion. I will fight to ensure that every American is treated equally, protected equally and honored equally.  We will reject bigotry and hatred, and oppression, in all of its ugly forms, and seek a new future built on our common culture and values as one American People. Only this way will we make America great again, and safe again--for everyone. Thank you very much, God bless you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. 
It's so great to be here tonight. I am honored to also be joined this evening by Governor Scott Walker, Chairman Reince Priebus, and Mayor Rudy Giuliani.
We are at a decisive moment in this election.
Last week, I laid out my plan to bring jobs back to our country. Yesterday, I laid out my plan to defeat Radical Islamic Terrorism. Tonight, I am going to talk about how to make our communities safe again from crime and lawlessness.
Let me begin by thanking the law enforcement officers here in this city, and across this country, for their service and sacrifice in difficult times.
The violence, riots and destruction that have taken place in Milwaukee is an assault on the right of all citizens to live in security and peace.
Law and order must be restored. It must be restored for the sake of all, but most especially the sake of those living in the affected communities.
The main victims of these riots are law-abiding African-American citizens living in these neighborhoods. It is their jobs, their homes, their schools and communities which will suffer as a result.
There is no compassion in tolerating lawless conduct. Crime and violence is an attack on the poor, and will never be accepted in a Trump Administration.
The narrative that has been pushed aggressively for years now by our current Administration, and pushed by my opponent Hillary Clinton, is a false one. The problem in our poorest communities is not that there are too many police, the problem is that there are not enough police.
More law enforcement, more community engagement, more effective policing is what our country needs.
Just like Hillary Clinton is against the miners, she is against the police. You know it, and I know it.
Those peddling the narrative of cops as a racist force in our society – a narrative supported with a nod by my opponent – share directly in the responsibility for the unrest in Milwaukee, and many other places within our country.
They have fostered the dangerous anti-police atmosphere in America.
Everytime we rush to judgment with false facts and narratives – whether in Ferguson or in Baltimore – and foment further unrest, we do a direct disservice to poor African-American residents who are hurt by the high crime in their communities.
During the last 72 hours, while protestors have raged against the police here in Milwaukee, another 9 were killed in Chicago and another 46 were wounded. More than 2,600 people have been shot in Chicago since the beginning of the year, and almost 4,000 killed in President Obama's hometown area since his presidency began.
How are we serving these American victims by attacking law enforcement officers?
The war on our police must end. It must end now.
The war on our police is a war on all peaceful citizens who want to be able to work and live and send their kids to school in safety.
Our job is not to make life more comfortable for the rioter, the looter, the violent disruptor. Our job is to make life more comfortable for the African-American parent who wants their kids to be able to safely walk the streets. Or the senior citizen waiting for a bus. Or the young child walking home from school.
For every one violent protestor, there are a hundred moms and dads and kids on that same city block who just want to be able to sleep safely at night. My opponent would rather protect the offender than the victim.
Hillary Clinton-backed policies are responsible for the problems in the inner cities today, and a vote for her is a vote for another generation of poverty, high crime, and lost opportunities.
I care too much about my country to let that happen.
We all care too much about our country to let that happen.
Good policing saves lives. My dear friend, Rudy Giuliani, knows a thing or two about this. The policies put into place by Rudy ultimately brought down crime by 76 percent and murder by 84 percent. Think of how many families were saved, how much heartache was prevented, when police were put into communities and criminals were removed.
Imagine how many lives could have been saved, all across this country, if Democratic politicians hadn't blocked in their cities what Rudy did in New York City? I'll make sure we deliver safe neighborhoods here in Milwaukee, and all across this country.
It's easy for Hillary Clinton to turn a blind eye to crime when she has her own private security force. I believe all Americans, not just the powerful, are entitled to security.
Hillary Clinton has had her chance. She failed. Now it's time for new leadership.
The Hillary Clinton agenda hurts poor people the most.
There is no compassion in allowing drug dealers, gang members, and felons to prey on innocent people. It is the first duty of government to keep the innocent safe, and when I am President I will fight for the safety of every American – and especially those Americans who have not known safety for a very, very long time.
I am asking for the vote of every African-American citizen struggling in our country today who wants a different future.
It is time for our society to address some honest and very difficult truths.
The Democratic Party has failed and betrayed the African-American community. Democratic crime policies, education policies, and economic policies have produced only more crime, more broken homes, and more poverty.
Let us look at the situation right here in Milwaukee, a city run by Democrats for decade after decade. Last year, killings in this city increased by 69 percent, plus another 634 victims of non-fatal shootings. 18-29-year-olds accounted for nearly half of the homicide victims. The poverty rate here is nearly double the national average. Almost 4 in 10 African-American men in Milwaukee between the ages of 25-54 do not have a job. Nearly four in 10 single mother households are living in poverty. 55 public schools in this city have been rated as failing to meet expectations, despite ten thousand dollars in funding per-pupil. There is only a 60% graduation rate, and it's one of the worst public school systems in the country.
1 in 5 manufacturing jobs has disappeared in Milwaukee since we fully opened our markets to China, and many African-American neighborhoods have borne the brunt of this hit.
To every voter in Milwaukee, to every voter living in every inner city, or every forgotten stretch of our society, I am running to offer you a better future.
The Democratic Party has taken the votes of African-Americans for granted. They've just assumed they'll get your support and done nothing in return for it. It's time to give the Democrats some competition for these votes, and it's time to rebuild the inner cities of America – and to reject the failed leadership of a rigged political system.
I'm not part of the corrupt system. In fact, the corrupt system is trying to stop me. I've been paying my own way. The voters in the Republican Party this year defied the donors, the consultants, the power brokers, and choose a nominee from outside our failed and corrupt and broken system.
The other party – the Democratic Party – nominated the personification of special interest corruption. The Democratic Party rigged the nomination to give it to Hillary Clinton, thus giving the soul of their party this year to the special interests.
I am running to listen to your voice, to hear your cries for help. The quiet voices in our society, not the loudest demonstrators, need to have their demands heard.
Jobs. Safety. Opportunity. Fair and equal representation.
We reject the bigotry of Hillary Clinton which panders to and talks down to communities of color and sees them only as votes, not as individual human beings worthy of a better future. She doesn't care at all about the hurting people of this country, or the suffering she has caused them.
The African-American community has been taken for granted for decades by the Democratic Party. It's time to break with the failures of the past – I want to offer Americans a new future.
It is time for rule by the people, not rule by special interests.
Every insider, getting rich off of our broken system, is throwing money at Hillary Clinton. The hedge fund managers, the Wall Street investors, the professional political class.
It's the powerful protecting the powerful.
Insiders fighting for insiders.
I am fighting for you.
When we talk about the insider, who are we talking about? It's the comfortable politicians looking out for their own interests. It's the lobbyists who know how to insert that perfect loophole into every bill. It's the financial industry that knows how to regulate their competition out of existence. The insiders also include the media executives, anchors and journalists in Washington, Los Angeles, and New York City, who are part of the same failed status quo and want nothing to change.
Every day you pick up a newspaper, or turn on the nightly news, and you hear about some self-interest banker or some discredited Washington insider says they oppose our campaign. Or some encrusted old politician says they oppose our campaign. Or some big time lobbyist says they oppose our campaign.
I wear their opposition as a badge of honor. Because it means I am fighting for REAL change, not just partisan change. I am fighting – all of us across the country are fighting – for peaceful regime change in our own country. The media-donor-political complex that's bled this country dry has to be replaced with a new government of, by and for the people.
The leadership class in Washington D.C., of which Hillary Clinton has been a member for thirty years, has abandoned the people of this country.
I am going to give the people their voice back.
Think about it. The people opposing our campaign are the same people who have left our border open and let innocent people suffer as a result.
The people opposing our campaign are the same people who have led us into one disastrous foreign war after another.
The people opposing our campaign are the same people who lied to us about one trade deal after another.
Aren't you tired of a system that gets rich at your expense?
Aren't you tired of big media, big businesses, and big donors rigging the system to keep your voice from being heard?
Are you ready for change?
Are you ready for leadership that puts you, the American people, first? That puts your country first? That puts your family first?
Let's talk about what this means for the inner cities of America. It's time to break through the television noise, the entrenched interests. I understand that a lot of powerful people in our political system – a lot of people who've created our problems – will lose a lot of their contracts, and their special gigs, if African-American voters, and all minority voters, support my campaign.
It's time to stop making the special interests rich. It's time to make the American people rich.
I am going to Make America Wealthy again.
The Democratic Party has run nearly every inner city in this country for 50 years, and run them into financial ruin.
They've ruined the schools.
They've driven out the jobs.
They've tolerated a level of crime no American should consider acceptable.
Violent crime has risen 17% in America's 50 largest cities last year. Killings of police officers this year is up nearly 50 percent. Homicides are up more than 60% in Baltimore. They are up more than 50% in Washington, D.C.
This is the future offered by Hillary Clinton. More poverty, more crime, and more of the same. The future she offers is the most pessimistic thing I can possibly imagine.
It is time for a different future.
Here is what I am proposing.
First, on immigration. No community in this country has been hurt worse by Hillary Clinton's immigration policies than the African-American community. Now she is proposing to print instant work permits for millions of illegal immigrants, taking jobs directly from low-income Americans. I will secure our border, protect our workers, and improve jobs and wages in your community. We will only invite people to join our country who share our tolerant values, who support our Constitution, and who love all of our people.
On trade, I am going to renegotiate NAFTA, stand up to China, withdraw from the TPP, and protect every last American job.
On taxes, I am going to give a massive tax cut to every worker and small business in this country, bring thousands of new companies and millions of new jobs onto our shores – and make it very difficult for our businesses to leave.
I am going to reform our regulations so jobs stay in America, and new businesses come to America to hire workers right here in Milwaukee. Every policy my opponent has sends jobs overseas. I am going to bring trillions in new wealth back to the United States.
On education, it is time to have school choice, merit pay for teachers, and to end the tenure policies that hurt good teachers and reward bad teachers. We are going to put students and parents first.
Hillary Clinton would rather deny opportunities to millions of young African-American children, just so she can curry favor with the education bureaucracy.
I am going to allow charter schools to thrive, and help young kids get on the American ladder of success: a good education, and a good-paying job.
On crime, I am going to support more police in our communities, appoint the best prosecutors and judges in the country, pursue strong enforcement of federal laws, and I am going to break up the gangs, the cartels and criminal syndicates terrorizing our neighborhoods. To every lawbreaker hurting innocent people in this country, I say: your free reign will soon come crashing to an end.
On healthcare, we are going to get rid of Obamacare – which has caused soaring double-digit premium increases – and give choice to patients and consumers. Aetna, just today, announced they are dropping out – as are many of the major insurance companies.
On government corruption, I am going to restore honor to our government. We've seen the corruption of Hillary Clinton, the mass email deletions, the pay-for-play at the State Department, the profiteering, the favors given to foreign corporations and governments at your expense. We've seen a former Secretary of State lie to Congress about her illegal email scheme, risk innocent American lives, and bring dishonor onto our government.
In my Administration, I am going to enforce all laws concerning the protection of classified information. No one will be above the law.
I am going to forbid senior officials from trading favors for cash by preventing them from collecting lavish speaking fees through their spouses when they serve.
I am going to ask my senior officials to sign an agreement not to accept speaking fees from corporations with a registered lobbyist for five years after leaving office, or from any entity tied to a foreign government. This is all just the beginning.
We are going to make this a government of the people once again. This is our chance to take back power from all the people who've taken it from you. The reason you see the establishment media lining up behind my opponent is because they are scared that you, with your vote, can take away their power and return it to your family and community.
These are tough times. But I know we can make American Greater Than Ever Before.
To do this, we are going to need a fighter in the White House.
I will be your fighter.
To defeat crime and Radical Islamic Terrorism in our country, to win trade in our country, you need tremendous physical and mental strength and stamina. Hillary Clinton doesn't have that strength and stamina. She cannot win for you.
Most importantly, she has bad judgment. Bad judgment on terrorism, bad judgement on foreign policy, bad judgment on trade.
The only individuals she's ever delivered for is her donors – not the people.
I've said it before, and I'll say it again. My opponent asks her supporters to repeat a three-word pledge. Her pledge reads: "I'm With Her"
I choose to recite a different pledge. My pledge reads: "I'm With You – the American people."
I will fight to ensure that every American is treated equally, protected equally, and honored equally. We will reject bigotry and hatred and oppression in all of its forms, and seek a new future of security, prosperity and opportunity – a future built on our common culture and values as one American people.
I am asking for your vote so I can be your champion in the White House. We will once again be a country of law and order, and a country of great success.
To every parent who dreams for their children, and to every child who dreams for their future, I say these words to you tonight: I'm with you, I will fight for you, and I will win for you.
Together, We will make America strong again.
We will make American safe again.
And we will make America great again.
Thank you, and God Bless.
I'd like to take a moment to talk about the heartbreak and devastation in Louisiana, a state that is very special to me.
We are one nation. When one state hurts, we all hurt – and we must all work together to lift each other up. Working, building, restoring together.
Our prayers are with the families who have lost loved ones, and we send them our deepest condolences. Though words cannot express the sadness one feels at times like this, I hope everyone in Louisiana knows that our country is praying for them and standing with them to help them in these difficult hours.
We are one country, one people, and we will have together one great future.
Tonight, I'd like to talk about the New American Future we are going to create together.
Last week, I laid out my plan to bring jobs back to our country.
On Monday, I laid out my plan to defeat Radical Islamic Terrorism.
On Tuesday, in Wisconsin, I talked about how we are going to restore law and order to this country.
Let me take this opportunity to extend our thanks and our gratitude to the police and law enforcement officers in this country who have sacrificed so greatly in these difficult times.
The chaos and violence on our streets, and the assaults on law enforcement, are an attack against all peaceful citizens. If I am elected President, this chaos and violence will end – and it will end very quickly.
Every single citizen in our land has a right to live in safety.
To be one united nation, we must protect all of our people. But we must also provide opportunities for all of our people.
We cannot make America great again if we leave any community behind.
Nearly Four in ten African-American children are living in poverty.I will not rest until children of every color in this country are fully included in the American Dream.
Jobs, safety, opportunity. Fair and equal representation. This is what I promise to African-Americans, Hispanic-Americans, and all Americans.
But to achieve this New American Future we must break from the failures of the past.
As you know, I am not a politician. I have worked in business, creating jobs and rebuilding neighborhoods my entire adult life. I've never wanted to learn the language of the insiders, and I've never been politically correct – it takes far too much time, and can often make more difficult.
Sometimes, in the heat of debate and speaking on a multitude of issues, you don't choose the right words or you say the wrong thing. I have done that, and I regret it, particularly where it may have caused personal pain. Too much is at stake for us to be consumed with these issues.
But one thing I can promise you is this: I will always tell you the truth.
I speak the truth for all of you, and for everyone in this country who doesn't have a voice.
I speak the truth on behalf of the factory worker who lost his or her job.
I speak the truth on behalf of the Veteran who has been denied the medical care they need – and so many are not making it. They are dying.
I speak the truth on behalf of the family living near the border that deserves to be safe in their own country but is instead living with no security at all.
Our campaign is about representing the great majority of Americans – Republicans, Democrats, Independents, Conservatives and Liberals – who read the newspaper, or turn on the TV, and don't hear anyone speaking for them. All they hear are insiders fighting for insiders.
These are the forgotten men and women in our society, and they are angry at so much on so many levels. The poverty, the unemployment, the failing schools, the jobs moving to other countries.
I am fighting for these forgotten Americans.
Fourteen months ago, I declared my campaign for the Presidency on the promise to give our government back to the people. Every day since then, I've worked to repay the loyalty and the faith that you have put in me.
Every day I think about how much is at stake for this country. This isn't just the fight of my life, it's the fight ofour lives – together – to save our country.
I refuse to let another generation of American children be excluded from the American Dream. Our whole country loses when young people of limitless potential are denied the opportunity to contribute their talents because we failed to provide them the opportunities they deserved. Let our children be dreamers too.
Our whole country loses every time a kid doesn't graduate from high school, or fails to enter the workforce or, worse still, is lost to the dreadful world of drugs and crime.
When I look at the failing schools, the terrible trade deals, and the infrastructure crumbling in our inner cities, I know all of this can be fixed - and it can be fixed very quickly.
In the world I come from, if something is broken, you fix it.
If something isn't working, you replace it.
If a product doesn't deliver, you make a change.
I have no patience for injustice, no tolerance for government incompetence, no sympathy for leaders who fail their citizens.
That's why I am running: to end the decades of bitter failure and to offer the American people a new future of honesty, justice and opportunity. A future where America, and its people, always – and I mean always – come first.
Aren't you tired of a system that gets rich at your expense?
Aren't you tired of the same old lies and the same old broken promises? And Hillary Clinton has proven to be one of the greatest liars of all time.
Aren't you tired of arrogant leaders who look down on you, instead of serving and protecting you?
That is all about to change – and it's about to change soon. We are going to put the American people first again.
I've travelled all across this country laying out my bold and modern agenda for change.
In this journey, I will never lie to you. I will never tell you something I do not believe. I will never put anyone's interests ahead of yours.
And, I will never, ever stop fighting for you.
I have no special interest. I am spending millions of dollars on my own campaign – nobody else is.
My only interest is the American people.
So while sometimes I can be too honest, Hillary Clinton is the exact opposite: she never tells the truth. One lie after another, and getting worse each passing day.
The American people are still waiting for Hillary Clinton to apologize for all of the many lies she's told to them, and the many times she's betrayed them.
Tell me, has Hillary Clinton ever apologized for lying about her illegal email server and deleting 33,000 emails?
Has Hillary Clinton apologized for turning the State Department into a pay-for-play operation where favors are sold to the highest bidder?
Has she apologized for lying to the families who lost loved ones at Benghazi?
Has she apologized for putting Iran on the path to nuclear weapons?
Has she apologized for Iraq? For Libya? For Syria? Has she apologized for unleashing ISIS across the world?
Has Hillary Clinton apologized for the decisions she made that have led to so much death, destruction and terrorism?
Speaking of lies, we now know from the State Department announcement that President Obama lied about the $400 million dollars in cash that was flown to Iran. He denied it was for the hostages, but it was. He said we don't pay ransom, but he did. He lied about the hostages – openly and blatantly – just like he lied about Obamacare.
Now the Administration has put every American travelling overseas, including our military personnel, at greater risk of being kidnapped. Hillary Clinton owns President Obama's Iran policy, one more reason she can never be allowed to be President.
Let's talk about the economy. Here, in this beautiful state, so many people have suffered because of NAFTA. Bill Clinton signed the deal, and Hillary Clinton supported it. North Carolina has lost nearly half of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA went into effect.
Bill Clinton also put China into the World Trade Organization – another Hillary Clinton-backed deal. Your city of Charlotte has lost 1 in 4 manufacturing jobs since China joined the WTO, and many of these jobs were lost while Hillary Clinton was Secretary of State – our chief diplomat with China. She was a disaster, totally unfit for the job.
Hillary Clinton owes the State of North Carolina a very big apology, and I think you'll get that apology around the same time you'll get to see her 33,000 deleted emails.
Another major issue in this campaign has been the border. Our open border has allowed drugs and crime and gangs to pour into our communities. So much needless suffering, so much preventable death. I've spent time with the families of wonderful Americans whose loved ones were killed by the open borders and Sanctuary Cities that Hillary Clinton supports.
I've embraced the crying parents who've lost their children to violence spilling across our border. Parents like Laura Wilkerson and Michelle Root and Sabine Durden and Jamiel Shaw whose children were killed by illegal immigrants.
My opponent supports Sanctuary Cities.
But where was the Sanctuary for Kate Steinle? Where was the Sanctuary for the children of Laura, Michelle, Sabine and Jamiel?
Where was the Sanctuary for every other parent who has suffered so horribly?
These moms and dads don't get a lot of consideration from our politicians. They certainly don't get apologies. They'll never even get the time of day from Hillary Clinton.
But they will always come first to me.
Listen closely: we will deliver justice for all of these American Families. We will create a system of immigration that makes us all proud.
Hillary Clinton's mistakes destroy innocent lives, sacrifice national security, and betray the working families of this country.
Please remember this: I will never put personal profit before national security. I will never leave our border open to appease donors and special interests. I will never support a trade deal that kills American jobs. I will never put the special interests before the national interest. I will never put a donor before a voter, or a lobbyist before a citizen.
Instead, I will be a champion for the people.
The establishment media doesn't cover what really matters in this country, or what's really going on in people's lives. They will take words of mine out of context and spend a week obsessing over every single syllable, and then pretend to discover some hidden meaning in what I said.
Just imagine for a second if the media spent this energy holding the politicians accountable who got innocent Americans like Kate Steinle killed – she was gunned down by an illegal immigrant who had been deported five times.
Just imagine if the media spent this much time investigating the poverty and joblessness in our inner cities.
Just think about how much different things would be if the media in this country sent their cameras to our border, or to our closing factories, or to our failing schools. Or if the media focused on what dark secrets must be hidden in the 33,000 emails Hillary Clinton deleted.
Instead, every story is told from the perspective of the insiders. It's the narrative of the people who rigged the system, never the voice of the people it's been rigged against.
So many people suffering in silence. No cameras, no coverage, no outrage from a media class that seems to get outraged over just about everything else.
So again, it's not about me. It's never been about me. It's about all the people in this country who don't have a voice.
I am running to be their voice.
I am running to be the voice for every forgotten part of this country that has been waiting and hoping for a better future.
I am glad that I make the powerful a little uncomfortable now and again – including some powerful people in my own party. Because it means I am fighting for real change.
There's a reason the hedge fund managers, the financial lobbyists, the Wall Street investors, are throwing their money at Hillary Clinton. Because they know she will make sure the system stays rigged in their favor.
It's the powerful protecting the powerful.
The insiders fighting for the insiders.
I am fighting for you.
Here is the change I propose.
On terrorism, we are going to end the era of nation-building and instead focus on destroying ISIS and Radical Islamic terrorism.
We will use military, cyber and financial warfare and work with any partner in the world, and the Middle East, that shares our goal of defeating terrorism. I have a message for the terrorists trying to kill our citizens: we will find you, we will destroy you, and we will win.
On immigration, we will temporarily suspend immigration from any place where adequate screening cannot be performed. All applicants for immigration will be vetted for ties to radical ideology, and we will screen out anyone who doesn't share our values and love our people. Anyone who believes Sharia law supplants American law will not be given an immigrant visa. If you want to join our society, then you must embrace our society, our values and our tolerant way of life. Those who believe in oppressing women, gays, Hispanics, African-Americans and people of different faiths are not welcome to join our country.
We will promote our America values, our American way of life, and our American system of government which are all the best in the world.
My opponent on the other hand wants a 550% increase in Syrian refugees. Her plan would bring in roughly 620,000 refugees from all refugee-sending nations in her first term, on top of all other immigration. Hillary Clinton is running to be America's Angela Merkel, and we've seen how much crime and how many problems that's caused the German people.
We have enough problems already, we don't need another one.
On crime, we are going to add more police, more investigators, and appoint the best judges and prosecutors in the world. We will pursue strong enforcement of federal laws.
The gangs and cartels and criminal syndicates terrorizing our people will be stripped apart one by one. Their day is over.
On trade, we are going to renegotiate NAFTA, withdraw from the TPP, stand up to China on our terrible trade agreement, and protect every last American job.
Hillary Clinton has supported all of the major trade deals that have stripped this country of its jobs and its wealth.
On taxes, we are going to massively cut tax rates for workers and small businesses – creating millions of new good paying jobs.
We are going to get rid of regulations that send jobs overseas and we are going to make it easier for young Americans to get the credit they need to start a small business and pursue their dreams.
On education, we are going to give students choice, and allow charter schools to thrive. We are going to end tenure policies that reward bad teachers and hurt good ones. My opponent wants to deny students choice and opportunity, all to get a little bit more money from the education bureaucracy. She doesn't care how many young dreams are dashed in the process.
We are going to work closely with African-American parents and students in the inner cities – and what a big difference that will make. This means a lot to me, and it is going to be a top priority in a Trump Administration.
On healthcare, we are going to repeal and replace Obamacare. Countless Americans have been forced into part-time jobs, premiums are about to jump by double-digits yet again, and just this week Aetna announced it is pulling out of the exchanges in North Carolina. We are going to replace this disaster with reforms that give you choice and freedom and control in healthcare – at a much lower cost.
On political corruption, we are going to restore honor to our government.
In my Administration, I am going to enforce all laws concerning the protection of classified information. No one will be above the law.
I am going to forbid senior officials from trading favors for cash by preventing them from collecting lavish speaking fees through their spouses when they serve.
I am going to ask my senior officials to sign an agreement not to accept speaking fees from corporations with a registered lobbyist for five years after leaving office, or from any entity tied to a foreign government.
Finally, we are going to bring this country together. We are going to do it by emphasizing what we all have in common as Americans. We are going to reject the bigotry of Hillary Clinton, which sees communities of color only as votes and not as human beings worthy of a better future.
If African-American voters give Donald Trump a chance by giving me their vote, the result for them will be amazing. Look at how badly things are going under decades of Democratic leadership – look at the schools, look at the 58% of young African-Americans not working. It is time for change.
What do you have to lose by trying something new? – I will fix it. This means so much to me, and I will work as hard as I can to bring new opportunity to places in our country which have not known opportunity in a very long time.
Hillary Clinton and the Democratic Party have taken African-American votes totally for granted. Because the votes have been automatically there, there has been no reason for Democrats to produce.
It is time to break with the failures of the past, and to fight for every last American child in this country to have the better future they deserve.
In my Administration, every American will be treated equally, protected equally, and honored equally. We will reject bigotry and hatred and oppression in all of its forms, and seek a new future built on our common culture and values as one American people.
This is the change I am promising all of you: an honest government, a fair economy, and a just society for each and every American.
But we can never fix our problems by relying on the same politicians who created these problems in the first place.
72% of voters say our country is on the wrong track. I am the change candidate, Hillary Clinton is the failed status quo.
It is time to vote for a New American Future.
Together, We will make America strong again.
We will make American proud again.
We will make America safe again.
Friends and fellow citizens: Come November, we will make America great again.
Thank You, and God Bless.
My fellow Americans, we are joined together today in sadness, shock, and grief. Last night, a gunman opened fire on a large crowd at a country music concert in Las Vegas, Nevada. He brutally murdered more than 50 people, and wounded hundreds more. It was an act of pure evil.
The FBI and the Department of Homeland Security are working closely with local authorities to assist with the investigation, and they will provide updates as to the investigation and how it develops.
I want to thank the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department and all of the first responders for their courageous efforts, and for helping to save the lives of so many. The speed with which they acted is miraculous, and prevented further loss of life. To have found the shooter so quickly after the first shots were fired is something for which we will always be thankful and grateful. It shows what true professionalism is all about.
Hundreds of our fellow citizens are now mourning the sudden loss of a loved one -- a parent, a child, a brother or sister. We cannot fathom their pain. We cannot imagine their loss. To the families of the victims: We are praying for you and we are here for you, and we ask God to help see you through this very dark period.
Scripture teaches us, “The Lord is close to the brokenhearted and saves those who are crushed in spirit.” We seek comfort in those words, for we know that God lives in the hearts of those who grieve. To the wounded who are now recovering in hospitals, we are praying for your full and speedy recovery, and pledge to you our support from this day forward.
In memory of the fallen, I have directed that our great flag be flown at half-staff.
I will be visiting Las Vegas on Wednesday to meet with law enforcement, first responders, and the families of the victims.
In moments of tragedy and horror, America comes together as one -- and it always has. We call upon the bonds that unite us -- our faith, our family, and our shared values. We call upon the bonds of citizenship, the ties of community, and the comfort of our common humanity.
Our unity cannot be shattered by evil. Our bonds cannot be broken by violence. And though we feel such great anger at the senseless murder of our fellow citizens, it is our love that defines us today -- and always will, forever.
In times such as these, I know we are searching for some kind of meaning in the chaos, some kind of light in the darkness. The answers do not come easy. But we can take solace knowing that even the darkest space can be brightened by a single light, and even the most terrible despair can be illuminated by a single ray of hope.
Melania and I are praying for every American who has been hurt, wounded, or lost the ones they love so dearly in this terrible, terrible attack. We pray for the entire nation to find unity and peace. And we pray for the day when evil is banished, and the innocent are safe from hatred and from fear.
May God bless the souls of the lives that are lost. May God give us the grace of healing. And may God provide the grieving families with strength to carry on.
Thank you. God bless America. Thank you.
So how good is he? How good is he? 
Special. Special. He is a special man and special person. And he has become my friend. Oh, there is a lot of people here. Whoa. 
Hello, everybody. Your football team is going to have a great year. 
I watch. I watch. You've got the quarterback, you've got the whole deal. I think it's going to be a very good year. 
OK? And if you get into that Super Bowl, I will be going, all right?
So, you know, I wrote something down before, and I think it is important, because -- I love you too. 
Because we need unity, we have to win this election. This is truly one of the most important elections, certainly in my lifetime. Because we are about to go -- we lose it, we are in the wrong direction, and maybe it's gone. Supreme Court justices, always remember that. But so many different levels, and when you see what happened with crooked Hillary today, it was a disaster. 
A disaster. She had a disaster. She lies folks, she lies badly. 
So, I want to -- I just wrote this out. I wanted to say to the group, you know, I had a great time when I was in Wisconsin, and I did not quite eke it out. I thought I was going to, but after that, it worked out well. You built me up, you taught me about politics.
And when I left here, I said, I think I've learned a lot. 
So, I love it. I love the people. I have many friends in Wisconsin. And they're -- they're incredible people. You're incredible people, I have to tell you that. 
And we're going to have a lot of fun. We are going to have a lot of fun but I had to write this. This campaign is not about me or any one candidate. It is about America. 
It is time for a change. We need a change. A real change, not an Obama change. We don't need an Obama change. We have had enough. It is time to change a rigged political system that works only for the insiders, and replace it with a government that serves the people. 
Have to do it. And know both sides. I've been on the other side. Believe me. I actually like this side better; this is a movement. This is a movement like they may be have never seen in this country, according to even the political pundits that truly hate me, OK? This is a -- they -- oh, this is a movement that some say, most say is one of the great phenomenon's that they've ever seen in politics.
Some say it's the single greatest phenomenon. 
Though the media doesn't want to talk about it, we have done something -- we. All of us, together. I'm a messenger; I'm only a messenger. We have done something truly historic together, standing before you as nominee for president and I'm not a politician, proudly. 
I'm not part of the system. I ran against the system, and I'm probably better off running against the system. 
I ran against the donors. I'm my own donor, essentially. I have a lot of money under this deal. This is a very expensive crisis, I want to tell you. 
I funded -- as you know, I funded the primaries. And I'm in for under $60 million, and I'm largely funding my campaign as we go forward. In addition to that -- in addition to that, we have raised tremendous amounts of money, and much of it from small donors,$61; $61. As a Republican, that doesn't happen. It happens because of what you are seeing in front of you today.
And if you remember, just prior to June, they did a story, "Donald Trump has not really done too well with fund raising." Well, that is because I did not even know if I was getting the nomination. I'm not going to raise funds -- I would've had enough if I didn't make it. I would have said, "Bye, bye, politics."
But I wanted to make sure -- so I got it. And then I started raising money for the Republican Party. and we raised a lot of money. We started really on June 14th, Flag Day, my birthday. My birthday. 
And in June, we raised approximately -- think of this -- $51 million. Can you imagine? 
And those people couldn't believe it; they were really surprised. Big headlines, you know. Because they don't give me too many good headlines. I could do the greatest things. I do things that I think a fantastic.
I say, good, there is no way they cover this badly. And they cover it badly. I gently tell a woman that I love her baby, and let the baby cry. It is OK. As the baby that had a voice that was superior to Pavarotti continued to cry -- I remember, I told her to stay, don't worry, ma'am.
But after about 3 or 4 minutes, and I'm trying to speak and it was in Jacksonville, we had this massive, massive crowd, filled up the stadium. And the baby's screaming. So, I said, ma'am, I would like to reverse my order. Perhaps you could nicely take -- take the baby out. Your baby is great
I did it so nicely. She was happy. Even the baby was happy. He stopped crying. 
And maybe you could take the baby out, would that be possible? The whole place was cracking up. And the next day in the newspaper, it said, "Trump throws baby out of arena."
Terrible. Now, they are very dishonest. That was a tough one, when I -- and I just had a reporter come up to me, backstage, a reporter come up -- "Mr. Trump, sir, but why did you throw that baby out of the area?" I said, "I was having fun. I was so nice, I was so nice. Everybody likes me. The baby liked me, the mother liked me. We had a good time. I try to keep the baby in, but the baby was such -- had such a powerful voice 
In fact, I want to find out who that baby is, because I want to sponsor the baby. And that baby will sing someday in Philharmonic Hall. I'm telling you. New York City. OK? The great Philharmonic. 
So, I'm not part of the system. I ran against the system. I ran against the donors, because I'm largely my own donor. I'm running against myself. That's sort of -- never thought of it that way. And against the status quo, and the status quo, we have to get rid of, because it is not working, folks, because the country is a mess. 
And that is why put up a lot of money. But while the Democrats nominated the candidate of special interests, and really a candidate of total corruption, I mean, you take a look at what she is doing, the Republicans made history by choosing a nominee from outside of this very, very corrupt the system. It is a corrupt system.
It's a corrupt system. You want something done, they can do it for you. And that is not necessarily, and usually it isn't good for the country.
That is why we're going to be able to deliver real change, and real safety and real opportunity to all Americans. We have to unite. Remember that.
Everything I've accomplished, I have done by putting together a really fantastic team, including Governor Mike Pence of Indiana, who has done an incredible... 
Done an incredible job. My wonderful staff of people that really love what we are doing, and they are working so hard. My family, friends, and it's expanding all the time.
But I need a Republican Senate and a House to accomplish all of the changes that we have to make. We have to make them, right? 
I understand and embrace the wisdom of Ronald Reagan's big tent within the party, big, big tent, remember? Ronald Reagan, great man, great guy. Remember he included Reagan Democrats and Independents and Republicans, a lot of people. We're going to have the same thing. There a lot of Democrats perhaps in this room, are there a lot of Democrats? Raise your hands. I mean, I don't think we need too many to be honest with you, but -- so I embraced the wisdom that my 80 percent friend is not my 20 percent enemy, Ronald Reagan. 
Stated by Ronald Reagan, pretty good.
We will be the big tent party. We are going to have a lot of cross help. We are going to have a lot of Bernie Sanders people coming in because of trade, because Bernie Sanders knew we were being ripped off by trade. Trade is a disaster with China, with Japan, with Mexico, with Vietnam, with so many countries, with every country, every country.
We don't win at any level with anything, and as a unified party, we will lead our country to unity as well, very important. We need the unity, we have to win the election. 
No we have to win it --- have to win it. Otherwise, our big movement was not as big as we thought and that's not good. That's why November 8th, you've got to get everybody you know -- and you know, all this voter ID nowadays, a lot of places aren't going to have voter ID. Now what does that mean? What does that mean? You just keep walking in and voting? So you have to be very careful, very vigilant -- you have to be careful
But we will have disagreements, but we will disagree as friends and never stop working together toward victory, and very importantly, toward real change. 
So in our shared mission to make America great again, I support and endorse our speaker of the House, Paul Ryan. 
Paul Ryan, he's good. He's a good man. He's a good man and he's a good guy. And we may disagree on a couple of things, but mostly we agree and we're going get it done and we're going to do a lot of wonderful things. 
He's a good man. And while I'm at it, I hold in the highest esteem Senator John McCain for his service to our country, in uniform and in public office, and I fully support and endorse his re-election. Very important. 
We'll work together. I also fully support and endorse Senator Kelly Ayotte of New Hampshire. 
A state I truly love, primarily because that was my first victory, but I love New Hampshire. No, I love New Hampshire, one of the most beautiful places. She's a rising star and will continue to represent the great people of New Hampshire so very well for a long, long time. Senator Kelly Ayotte. 
Working hand-in-hand, we will grow our majority in the House and in the Senate. We need that, we've got to get things done. Arm in arm, we will rescue the nation from the Obama-Clinton disaster, which is exactly what it is, that has bled our country dry and spread terrorism unabated across the world, that's what's happening. You saw it just now, Maps came out yesterday, they said ISIS far bigger, it's all over the place. It's all over the place. We're going to get rid of it, folks. 
Our military is depleted. We're going to build up our military, we are going to get others with us. Believe me, we're going to get plenty of others with us. And speaking of others, wouldn't it actually be wonderful if we could get along with Russia? Wouldn't that be nice? 
They talk so big and so brave and so tough, they're the tough ones. You know, Hillary's real tough, give me a break. Wouldn't that be great? We get along with Russia, we go out together with others and we knock the hell out of ISIS, wouldn't that be great? 
Together we will lead our country back to prosperity, security and peace. OK? When you look at the world and what's happened -- so we have the queen of corruption, she's the queen of corruption. She is a disaster. I said before, if crooked Hillary Clinton becomes president, terrorism will destroy the inner workings of our country. Believe me, they are loving it.
She wants to have 550 percent more people coming in from Syria and that region into our nation. And we don't know who they are, we don't know where they come from really, we don't know if they're ISIS, some will be. And look at the damage that's done in San Bernardino with a couple -- probably he became radicalized by her -- a couple, and these were friends of theirs. These were people that gave a party in celebration of the birth of their child and they were gunned down, 14 people killed, many, many injured.
Take a look at Orlando -- take a look at Orlando, how disgusting that was. Take a look at the World Trade Center and so many other places. Go to the probably toughest gun laws anywhere in the world, go to Paris and take a look at that, 130 people gunned down. You know, if people had guns, on the other side where the bullets are flying in the other direction, like you sir, you sir, you and you, ma'am. 
First of all, if they knew guns were in the room, they probably wouldn't have gone there. There were no guns. They were just sitting ducks, 130 people. In San Bernardino you had 14 people.
But in Paris, just like this, boom -- get over here, boom -- get over here, boom -- 130 people with many still in the hospital, many so gravely wounded. It's horrible. And if they had bullets flying in the other direction, maybe they wouldn't have shown up, and if they did, I'll tell you what, you wouldn't have had that kind of carnage. You would have had people lying on the other side of the floor instead. 
So Hillary Clinton wants to do major damage, as you know, to our Second Amendment. Hillary Clinton wants to put judges -- she wants to put justices of the Supreme Court -- she's going to make them nice and liberal, wait until -- wait until you see what that does to your rights. Wait until you see what that does to your Second Amendment. You will not recognize it, you will not recognize it. National Rifle Association, NRA, endorsed me. 
They're great people, Wayne -- they're great people, Chris, they love this country. They endorsed me very early and it's really a -- it's really an honor. I'll tell you what, they are phenomenal people when you get to know them. They love the country -- you know, they love the country. They take a lot of heat, but they love the country, I'll tell you that right now.
And I heard Mike, Governor Pence, talking about 1.2 growth -- 1.2 percent growth, the lowest in memory since the 1940's. When you think about it, it's the lowest. So a lot of differences between all of us, but I thought I would mention -- because I've known Hillary Clinton over the years -- I know her -- and she makes statements. She makes statements and they are statements coming out of her playbook.
Well, let's see, "we can't get them for this -- can't get them for this." I've always heard that I have the best temperament, people tell me I have the best temperament, I have a temperament to win. We got to win. We got to win
She said not so long ago, "I don't like Donald Trump's tone". Now, she is reading it off teleprompters only. "I don't like Donald trump's tone." And I said, you know, "we need a tough tone today. We have people -- we need a kind tone, but we need a tough tone."
We have people being beheaded all over the Middle East and other places. We have crime that is rampant. We have people in the Middle East being drowned in steel cages. This is like medieval times, and she is worried about my tone.
So they chop off heads and they drown people, and they bury people in sand. And then they ask me, "Mr. Trump, sir," -- at one of the debates in which I won, I'm very happy about that -- "Mr. Trump, sir, how do you feel about waterboarding?" I'm seeing chopped off heads, drowned people, burying in sand -- I said, "I'm absolutely OK with it, let me tell you." 
Can you imagine what the enemy must say -- can you imagine the enemy -- ISIS in this case -- can you imagine what they must say as they spent the day chopping off the heads of Christians -- "come back, get together and start talking -- and they say waterboarding is not allowed in the United States -- by the United States, waterboarding is not allowed."
Folks, we better get smart and tough and we are playing games with Hillary, we are playing games. It is just games, she is not the right person and everybody knows it. Her single greatest achievement is being caught in a crime and getting away with it. 
This is true, 33,000 e-mails. 
So I wrote this before on the way over to another rally at also a very nice place that's very full and very nice in Iowa. And we love Iowa don't we, yes? Right? 
I thought it was accurate, unstable -- and she is, she is unstable. Hillary Clinton lacks the judgment that Bernie Sanders had. You just have to pay attention, as soon as he said it, I started writing notes. 
"She has bad judgment. She lacks the judgment, temperament and moral character to lead this country. Plus, she is a weak person." We don't need a weak person. He just said, "plus, she is a criminal."
She is a dangerous liar who has disregarded the lives of Americans, and who has put all of us at great risk while supporting economic policies that have destroyed our economy. We have a long way to go.
She is unhinged, she's truly unhinged, and she is unbalanced, totally unbalanced. And you can see, in the words of a secret service agent who just wrote a book, I bought the book, I wanted to see what he had to say; "she simply lacks the integrity and temperament to serve in the office."
"From my bottom of my soul" he said, "I know this to be true." He was there. "Her leadership style, volcanic impulsive as it is, disdainful of the rules set for everyone else hasn't changed a bit. She's unqualified to become president." And she really is, and Bernie said that too. 
Thank you. What great people. Wow.
No, but it is true, no games, it is true. In one way she is a monster, OK? Look at what happened, look at her history. In another way, she is a weak person, she is actually not strong enough to be president. So she's got both, but she is not strong enough to be president.
She will be a be a disaster. She will be so bad for our country, and I'm not just talking about Justices of the Supreme Court. She will be so bad for our country and we can't let it happen. We can't let it happen.
You know, Mike Pence told me a story, and maybe I should not say it, but I found it interesting, but of the reasons -- I guess the primary reason that he's in politics is because he watched the crookedness of the Clintons when they were in the White House. And he said "he ran, he ran again and he ran again, and he won." You have to hand it to him, this is the guy that does not give up. He does not quit. He never ever quits. 
But he watched the Clintons -- and I'm sure they will be thrilled to hear that -- but that actually got him into politics, which is interesting.
So then we make these horrible deals; Iran Deal, horrible deal, we got $150 billion -- and how about $400 million -- think of it, $400 million in cash, different currencies, different denominations. Now, lot of people say that money went toward terror
I'm nicer than that, see, I don't have that horrible thought process that some people have in this room have. I say, some of it went to terror, but a lot of it went into their bank accounts, believe me, that's the way it is. It went into their pockets, can you imagine these guys sitting there with $400 million in cash? You think they're giving that money to terror, they are giving that money to them and I guess terror got some of it, but most of it they kept.
I mean, the concept of paying $400 million in cash is mind- boggling. I mean, you wouldn't think -- who can authorize such a thing? Where did they get it? What did they do, go to a bank teller and say, "give me $400 million in cash? I want to in euros, I want it in Swiss francs, wrap it up, we will come back in 10 minutes."
I mean, it is just inconceivable. So we are witnessing a horror show in this country and throughout the world. You look at what is going on throughout the world with these same people, these people funding terror -- these people are funding terrorism. For us to have given $400 million to basically free our hostages.
Now, Obama, just like he lied about Obamacare which was a tremendous lie, that was a tremendous lie, remember? "You can keep your plan, you can keep your doctor." Really? How many people have been able to keep the doctor or their plan?
Keep your plan, keep your doctor -- not working that way, folks. It is a disaster. By the way, it is going to be repealed and replaced 100 percent. 
And -- and honestly, I hope I win, because we will do a great job. We are going to make America great again. We're going to make America great again. 
But I actually think that regardless of who wins, Obamacare is going to fold in any event. It is so expensive. People can't afford it and the country can't afford it. Other than that, it is just wonderful. So, in Texas, they just had almost a 60 percent increase. Now the increases are starting to come out. The big increase is going to be announced on November 1st. The election is November 8th. Folks, they want to delay it, because it is election-changing. It is a mess.
It is election changing, and they want to change it. And we can't let that happen.
Because the numbers -- and I can see some of the numbers already -- the numbers are going to be astronomical. They are going to be astronomical. They're going to be so big, so horrible, and the health care, you know, the plan is terrible. It's terrible. And we're going to take care of everybody, but we're going to end up with a great plan that costs much less money for the people and much less money for the country.
This plan is a total rip. It does not work, so it's going to fall, because economically, it is a disaster for the country, too.
But what about people where they said they had a 30, 40, 50, 60 percent increase? And it's going to be worse than that, I predict on November 1st.
So, we'd better get smart and we'd better start thinking properly.
Now, I want to talk about what is going on at the borders, because money... 
Oh, we're going to build it.
So, listen, so we have people coming to our country that should not be coming to our country . We have thousands and thousands of people from certain terrorist states, from certain parts of the world that we are allowing to come into our country.
Most of the politicians, almost all of them don't even know where they are, where they are being put, they know nothing about these people. This could be the great Trojan Horse of all time. And Hillary wants thousands more to come in over and above Obama. Right?
So, tall -- and the wall is getting taller every day. 
If you think of this, I just wrote this, the Obama-Clinton foreign-policy has handed huge portions of Iraq, Libya and Syria to ISIS. Huge portions. It has undermined stability in Egypt, and you know what they have to do over there. And empowered Iran as never before. Iran, three years ago was -- was dying. In fact, when they were marching in the streets, if Obama would have just encouraged them a little more, it would have been taken over by the people.
But Obama played ball with the thugs that are running it right now. Think of this, think of this. Look, look. We're making a deal, and the deal is not made, and they are dancing in the streets of Iran saying how stupid the Americans are to be making this deal.
The leaders, and in particular the leader of Iran, is calling us stupid, and the deal means nothing.
And yesterday, I think he just said that the United States is essentially nothing.
This is our -- this is our great, great partner.
But when you have somebody -- if I was making this deal, and if the other side was bragging about it, the deal wasn't made, I'm not making that deal. I'm not making it. I'm walking.
But we kept it going, and we should have never ever started negotiating that deal until we had our hostages back. OK? 
We should have walked. We should have doubled up the sanctions and walked. And they would have -- and I say it. Before the plane reached New York City or Washington, you could just turn it around, because they'll call you, they'll say, let's go. Take your hostages.
But when you think about it, you probably read today and yesterday, one of the hostages was waiting for a very long period of time. Now, Obama said that it had nothing to do with the hostages. That he would not do that for kidnappers.
He would not do that for kidnapping. OK? No, no, think of that. You have got to think about it. He wouldn't do it -- now, it was the same day, right, same day. We have to be exactly accurate, because they'll catch us, right? Same day.
The money came in, and one of the hostages, a good guy, I saw him interview on television. Good guy, hard time. Btu didn't he say he waited forever, he waited. And somebody said, nope, we are waiting for either something or a plane to come in.
And here Obama stands up yesterday, and for seven minutes is telling us one thing had nothing to do with the other. Just a lie. You know, at least be truthful. 
And we're talking about the same day, $400 million, and we could have had something that would have been a much better deal. And you know what, I'm all in favor of deals when it gets to nuclear. But we could have made it -- we should have walked. And we should have walked with $150, too; we have said, sorry, we don't have the money, can't pay. We don't have the money. We owe almost $20 trillion
I'm sorry, fellas, we love you, we think you're the greatest guys on Earth. But we can't give you the money. We don't have it. And they will get angry and they will be upset, and two days later, you'll be back negotiating.
You just saved yourself $150 billion, right? Hundred and -- $150 billion. 
So, we have terrorists pouring into our country, we have people coming in. I don't know if you saw this, in Maine -- and Maine knows, because Maine is -- I was up there yesterday -- a great place. A great governor, great governor. Paul is doing a great job.
And I think the most important issue facing civilization right now is radical Islamic terrorism. And we have a president that refuses to use the term, and we have crooked Hillary who does not want to use it. Now, she's being forced to use it by me.
Did you notice she gave a speech, she said, I will use it. She called it, I think, radical Islam. But she said, I will use it. I will. Just like the Trans-Pacific Partnership. She called it the gold standard. It is a horror show.
It's almost as bad or maybe it's going to worse than NAFTA, signed by her husband, which cleaned out many of the states in our country, cleaned them out from manufacturing. Moved to Mexico and other places. NAFTA, a total disaster.
NAFTA, signed by Bill Clinton. He never suffered the ravages, because he signed it, then he got out and other people did suffer with it.
But we are going to renegotiate NAFTA, and if they don't want to make a great deal for us so we get our jobs back, at least a lot of them, if we can't make a great deal -- and she can't do that, by the way, if she wanted to.
Number one, her donors would not let her. Her special interests would never let her. Her lobbyists would never let her.
Number three, she could not do it anyway. Even if she wanted to.
But we're going to renegotiate. And did you hear her the other day? After years of saying how wonderful it is, even though you look at New England, and you look at New York state and you look at Pennsylvania and Ohio, if you look at a lot of other places, one of the reasons I won Indiana so big -- well, one of the reasons was the great Bobby Knight, OK?
Bobby Knight in Indiana. 
That's gold standard right? As she said about TPP. But one of the reasons I won was because Carrier Air Conditioning was moving to Mexico from Indiana, and they let go of 1,400 people.
And I've been talking about this, and I know how to stop it, and you've heard me before, so easy to stop. There have to be consequences when Mexico takes our companies. And not only Mexico; there have to be consequences when China devalues its currency so that our companies can no longer compete with China, even though we make better product.
I have friends who are manufacturers. We make better product. They can't get their product into China And when a few times arise where they can, they have to pay an incredible tax, beyond what anybody would even think costs. But yet, we open our doors and just throw away your stuff, and we lose our jobs and it is very, very said.
But look, as many know, a major destination -- Maine, has become a major destination for Somali refugees. We admit hundreds of thousands of refugees into the United States from many of the most dangerous and unstable regions in the world. And you are getting them here too folks, you just don't know it because you just don't know.
Anybody in this room -- anybody in this room from a terror territory? All right, a practice -- and this is a practice which will continue under Hillary Clinton except it will expand five, six, seven fold. I don't get it. I mean, I know they will vote Democrat, OK, that's what I know, but they will not be voting for a long time.
I just -- I don't get it, how can anybody even think this way? Now, the Washington Times reported, "of the Somali refugees -- the program in Minnesota -- that the effort to resettle large groups of Somali refugees is having the unintended consequence of creating an enclave of immigrants with high unemployment that is both stressing the state safety net" -- tremendous problems for safety -- "and creating a rich pool of potential recruiting targets for the Islamic terror groups
Aren't we smart? We are having this problem across our refugee and immigration programs. Here are some of the examples -- I will give you a few examples, and this came out of the Senate subcommittee just recently. "The Boston bombers" -- remember those horrible, disgusting people? "The Boston bombers arrived through the political asylum process.
The younger brother applied for citizenship and was naturalized on September 11, 2012. The older brother had a pending application for citizenship." And look what happened, we took them in. Look what happened, aren't we smart?
The Moroccan national who came to the United States on a student visa was arrested for plotting to blow up a university in a federal courthouse. Great. A Uzbek refugee living in Idaho was arrested and charged with providing support to a terrorist organization in the form of teaching terror recruits how to build massive and very dangerous bombs. We let him in.
An immigrant from Syria who later applied for and received U.S. citizenship was accused by federal prosecutors of planning to go to a military base in Texas and kill three or four American soldiers, execution style if possible -- more than that, if at all possible.
A college student who immigrated from Somalia who later applied and received U.S. citizenship, attempted to blow up a Christmas tree lighting ceremony in Oregon.
An immigrant from Afghanistan who later applied for and received U.S. citizenship, and a legal permanent resident from the Philippines were convicted for plotting to join Al Qaida and the Taliban in order to kill as many Americans as possible -- as many as possible.
An Iraqi immigrant who later applied for and received U.S. citizenship was arrested for lying to federal agents about pledging allegiance to ISIS, his travels to Syria, and how many Americans he wanted to kill.
Two immigrants from Pakistan who later applied for and received U.S. citizenship were sentenced to decades long prison sentences for plotting to detonate a bomb -- and a very big bomb, in the middle of New York City.
An immigrant from Yemen who later applied for and received U.S. citizenship was arrested for trying to join ISIS. He was also charged with attempting to illegally buy firearms to try to shoot as many American military personnel as possible.
All right folks. So, I just say, what are we doing? What are we doing? And Hillary Clinton wants more and more to pour in. You can almost say, you know, politics aside, whether you are a Democrat, whether you are a liberal, a Republican, a conservative; what are they doing? I don't care who you are, what the hell are they doing? 
So we are going to have strong borders, our southern border is going to be very powerful. We are going to stop the drugs from pouring into Wisconsin and every place else. 
The heroin epidemic is beyond belief. In New Hampshire, a great place, that is where I realized the extent of what is going on. I met with the people of New Hampshire and they tell me, "the biggest problem they have is heroin." I said, "it can't be with the beautiful lakes and streams, it so beautiful." Right, and their biggest problems heroin. I said, "you have to be kidding, that can't be right, " and it was. Their youth is being poisoned. And then you go to Massachusetts, and you go to North Carolina, and South Carolina, and you come here, you come here -- I just left Iowa, you go to Iowa and you see the tremendous problems they have with heroin and drugs that pour in from the southern border. And look, here's the story, we are going to have strong borders. We are going to have a wall, it will be a big and powerful wall -- a big powerful wall. 
You know that Hillary Clinton wanted a wall a number of years ago? She wanted a wall. And the primary research, as we understand it, looking back, not that long ago, she wanted a wall. You know, walls do work folks, all you have to do is ask Israel. All you have to do is ask some of the nations that are in Europe right now that are building walls.
You know, it's sort of interesting, Obama talks about, "there will be no wall." But in the White House, which he just said, which is true, they want to build essentially a wall, they want to build a fence a lot bigger, and a lot higher, and a lot stronger.
You know, it is interesting. I say, "don't build that fence right, don't build that fence," because they say, "walls don't work" -- fences don't work, don't build that fence."
When Hillary doesn't want to let you have your guns, she is surrounded by people like this that have more firepower on them than any human beings on earth, and I think she doesn't want to have guns. I think that all of her bodyguards and all of her Secret Service should immediately give up their weapons. 
OK, I mean it. They should immediately give up their weapons. They should immediately give up those weapons and if somebody comes at you with a gun, you just try to talk them out of it, I guess. You got to do some quick talking.
You got to do some quick talking, Hillary. I don't think even Hillary with her phony lies and disgusting habits, I don't think Hillary could get away with that one. 
So we are going to have a little contrast. And I did this very quickly but it is so simple, Hillary wants to raise taxes, Trump is going to lower taxes very substantially, the biggest tax decrease of all on business and on person.
Hillary wants to significantly expand regulations. Trump is going to get rid of many, many, many regulations. 
Which, by the way, are stopping your businesses both small and big from succeeding, from expanding and more than anything, from starting. You can't start a business today the regulations are so onerous and horrible.
Hillary wants to shut down energy production.  Trump wants to expand it significantly. And we'll start paying off our debt. 
Hillary wants to essentially abolish the Second Amendment, take away your right.  Donald Trump will protect it more so than any president that has ever served. 
Crooked Hillary wants far left activities judges forced over there by Bernie and by Pocahontas. 
Who will destroy our Constitution. I want judges who will support and defend our Constitution. 
As close, by the way, to Justice Scalia who was great as we could get, OK? 
Hillary wants to open our borders, just open them up because her special interests and donors want it that way. There are reasons, I understand that. I want to totally secure our borders. But I want people to come in. But they come in through a process and they come in legally. 
Hillary wants to invade foreign countries. You ever see the one where she says "Donald Trump with the nuclear" -- I'm -- I didn't want the war in Iraq. And I'm on record. I didn't want the war in Iraq. I didn't want all of -- what they've done. And I said, if you read Esquire Magazine from a long time ago, you'll see everything I said was exactly right. It's going to de-stabilize the Middle East.
I said the meanest, toughest group of people, the people that hate the United States and its people the most, they're going to take it over. That's exactly what's happening. They're taking over the oil, they're taking over the land, they're taking over everything. I didn't want it, but I'm always being accused like the war hog they think I'm a tough guy, the war hog. Right?
They think she wants to be tough with Russia. So she said well, Donald Trump likes Putin. I don't know Putin, folks. I don't know. I hope I like him, I hope he likes me because I'd love to get along with Russia. OK? 
Love to. But I don't know. But she goes Donald Trump, Donald Trump -- think about it -- wants to befriend Putin and other things, she said right? And I'm saying to myself what's wrong with that? That's good.
But she's going to be the tough one, see? She's going to be the tough one. She's going to play with nuclear weapons, you know? They have all the nukes, nice nukes. She's going to be the tough one.
I'll tell you what, you put her in the office of the president -- you know, she hates Putin and Putin hates her, right? That's what I hear. No, no -- Putin probably doesn't respect her more than anything else. But Putin hates her. But she's going to be tough. We're going to be tough with Russia -- oh, we're going to be tough, right? Let me tell you, we're in a different world today, folks. We're in a different world.
But she makes it sound like I'm this tough guy that will have a temperament. You know, she uses the word -- you know who gave her the word? Her people that write the speeches, we'll say Trump with a temperament.
They said Trump in a speech with tweets. I've got -- I've got between Facebook and Twitter like almost 21, 22 million people. It's an asset, it's an asset. I tweet well. But -- but she said -- she made the statement during her speech, you know, I heard it barely because I was falling asleep, you couldn't watch it. 
All right. So remember that one. Hillary wants to invade foreign countries. Look at Libya. Look at that. We did a great job there. You know, a spot hit on Gaddafi maybe, but I mean even that, what the hell do we get out of this? It's a disaster. Then you have Benghazi, then you have ISIS -- then you have ISIS -- then you have ISIS taking over the oil, large portions of the oil. And it's some of the finest oil in the world. And you have ISIS grabbing it.
We don't know what we're doing. We have people that don't know what we're doing. We have people that militarily -- in fact, they said well, who is your military consultants? And I give them names. But they're not working now, you know they're not working now. And I said of course they're not working now, look what working now people have gotten us. Havoc, who the hell wants the people who are working now? I mean... 
You know, a lot of it's common sense and a lot of it's instinct and she has very bad judgment, she's got no instinct whatsoever. And when I was asked on one of the big networks about NATO, they said what do you think of NATO? Now, you know it's not like it was my primary subject in all fairness. I've only been doing this for 12 months. Now, it's actually almost 14 months, hard to believe, right?
But NATO -- so I said I know enough. And sometimes knowing a little is better than knowing too much. You understand, you can't see the forest through the trees, right? So I said NATO in my opinion is obsolete because it's not covering terrorism. Obsolete for that reason and also you have many countries that aren't paying their fair share, they're not paying what they're supposed to be paying. 
And we're protecting those guys and we're supposed to get into World War III for all these countries that aren't paying their fair share. And even the commander of NATO -- and I so respect what he did. He came out the other day and he said Donald Trump is right, we have cut you see that's right did you see the letter -- the big story? Donald Trump is right. I'm sure Obama was thrilled when he saw that. 
Donald Trump is right; you have countries that aren't paying. And he said how he goes in and he talks to them. He says look, you've got to pay your bills. I have budgets -- which is true. And I have to go back to Congress and I have to say what's happening.
They don't pay their bills though because people don't ask properly. And they probably say to the president or whoever may handle the country. "Sir, we owe the United States millions of dollars. We're ready to pay." Oh, have they asked for the money? No. They'll pay, OK
But I will say the commander of NATO said I was right. And then you have these people back here -- stupid people -- right here. They said Donald Trump -- now they're the worst. They're the worst. They said Donald Trump -- Donald Trump doesn't like NATO. He is going to abandon NATO. That's not what I said. I said they've got to pay. They've got to pay.
Now, you have to walk. You may have to walk. But they've got to pay. We're going to get in World War III for all these countries that are laughing at the stupidity of the United States, right? No, they've got to pay. And they probably will, in all fairness.
But Hillary said about Japan -- because Japan, we're defending Japan you know that, right? Now, in all fairness before I came alone put yourself back three years ago. Did anybody know that we defend Japan? Raise your hand who knew. All right, there's about 12 percent.
Not bad. I think some of you are lying, OK? I think some of you are related to Hillary Rodham Clinton. I think some of you are lying. But we defend Japan and a man comes up, general or something, a few months ago, I remember so vividly. And he said at a news conference because they were embarrassed because I kept saying they've got to pay their way. And if they don't -- if they don't, you always have to be prepared to walk you have to do that.
You know, we don't want to do that, I understand the reason. It'd be nice to have them but you know this isn't again 40 years ago. We owe $20 trillion. We're defending all these -- we defend Japan. We defend Germany. We defend Saudi Arabia. You think they have the money to pay -- how about we have military bases that we rent -- we pay rent to Saudi Arabia to protect them? No. No, think of it. Think of it, think of the stupidity. Think of the stupidity. So this general comes up, has a news conference a few months ago. And he said, "Mr. Trump doesn't understand that Japan is paying 50 percent of the cost to defend them."
So a reporter goes up who I think is there and said to me, "Mr. Trump, we'd like your comment. They say that Japan is paying 50 percent of the cost to defend." And I said why aren't they paying 100 percent? The reporter said, OK." Not a bad question. Now, here's the problem with the Hillary -- Hillary rotten Clinton. Here's the problem. 
Here is -- that's why she changed her last -- that's why she doesn't want to use the name anymore, because everybody was saying that. I don't know. I've been saying it.
But look, here is -- here is why it doesn't work for Hillary. She saw that I said that we have to get reimbursed for our costs, at least, right?
Japan, economic behemoth. Germany -- see how well they're doing -- economic behemoth. Saudi Arabia, nothing but money.
They were making $1 billion a day with their high oil prices, now they're making a fortune, the same thing. Economic behemoth. Why are defending them, and why aren't we being fully reimbursed? Now, if we do that, your budget already is starting to look real good, OK. You know, you have budgets, so we losing our assurance; we have an $800 billion trade deficit, folks.
We trade with companies. We have a deficit with other countries, think of it -- $800 billion a year. Trade deficit. Do we make the deals? no.
With China, $505 billion trade deficit. And they cheat us because they devalue their currency all the time. Whenever it gets a little bit tough, devalue, devalue, and our companies can't compete with that. Right?
So, here's the thing. So, Hillary says about Japan, how dare he not not stay with our allies, how dare he not do that?
I will never abandon our allies, ever, ever, ever. Now, how do you negotiate when you're telling somebody will never going to leave? We may have to leave.
Look, Japan has problems because you have the maniac in North Korea making missiles. But I mean, you know, so we'll get it.
Now, South Korea, it is an economic behemoth. You can't buy television that is not made in South Korea, except Sony, which is made in Japan, which has sort of lost its way. Whether it is LG or Samsung. I order thousands of television sets; you can't buy them in the United States. I'd love to. Show me one company. One of the pundits said, they do make them. There's a company.
And he showed me, it's a little company. What they do is, all the parts come in for -- from all over the world; they put them together, and they give you a television that doesn't work and nobody ever heard of it. 
And then I put it into a luxury hotel, and everybody complains, right?
So, you can't say to people when you're negotiating -- because we're talking about tremendous billions and billions of dollars. You can't say to people -- you can't say to people when you're negotiating, we'll never leave you.
Think of this, we're going to never leave you; we love you, we'll never leave you. Could you pay more? No, we're not going to pay anymore. You're not going to leave us. Why should we pay more?
So, there's a chance we'll have to leave. And there's a chance that, you know, Japan will have to take over this monster and figure it out. We're very far away. It's very expensive.
You know, we have a treaty with Japan. And if the United States is attacked, they don't have to do anything. But if Japan is attacked, we have to go in there will our full force and might, and who the hell knows what's going to happen, right
World War III, who knows what's going to happen. But if we're attacked, they don't have to do anything. You tell me, who makes these deals?
It's like Sergeant Bergdahl, right? So, we trade a dirty, rotten traitor where five or maybe even six people were killed when he deserted, and we knew that they were killed and we knew that he was a traitor. We trade for five of the greatest killers, the greatest killers in the Middle East, the five people that they wanted the most. That is our deal.
So, we get a traitor and they get five people that are right now, most of them, already back on the battlefields trying to kill everybody, including us.
No more, folks. That is called the five for one president. That's -- that is the same guy that made the deal for $400 million. The other guys couldn't leave the airport, the hostages. And then all of a sudden, they were able to leave.
And then you watched him yesterday saying that, can you believe it? This had nothing to do with that. OK? Just a coincidence. No, no, just a coincidence -- no. You know, she is unfit to serve as president for a lot of reasons. He is unfit also. He has done so bad. He has been so incompetent. We have doubled our debt during his -- think of it. Over the years of our country -- over the years of our country, he gets in, and in eight years by the time his term is up, we will have doubled our national debt.
Think of it. So, we have to win this election. This is a very important election. I do not need to do this, folks, believe me. I could be elsewhere right now, I love being with you.
But I could be elsewhere. I could be -- I might be in Wisconsin, just a different location. OK? But I felt I had to do it. I want to give back. I will get back give back, I'm going to give back. I'm going to give back. 
I want to give back. Because our country does not win anymore.
Our country does not win anymore. And it is not going to win with crooked Hillary Clinton. Not going to win. It's not going to win. She does not know how to win. Our country is not going to win with her.
We're going to be worse than we are with Obama. I mean, if you want four more years of what is going on, ISIS, all over the place, ISIS expanding.
And by the way, our policeman are great, great people. 
And we are not going to allow our policeman to be shot down anymore. Anymore. No more. No more.
So, November 8th, you have a big election. I promise you this, if I win, we're going to start winning again. We are going to win on trade, we're going to win with our military, we're going to take out ISIS, we are going to win for our veterans who have been totally mistreated.
Our veterans are great. We have a great plan for the veterans. We're are going to win for our veterans, first time, maybe ever.
We are going to win on trade deals. We are going to make the finest, we are going to bring our jobs back. We're not going to make it easy for these companies to leave and fire everybody. It going to be very, very expensive when they do it.
Believe me, it's going to be very, very expensive. They're going to say, you know what? Maybe we'll stay Wisconsin, OK? Maybe we will stay. 
No, it's going to be very, very hard. We're going to have strong borders, we're going to have the wall. Mexico is going to pay for the wall 100 percent, 100 percent. 
We are going to get rid of Obamacare. We're going to get rid of Common Core, we're going to bring our education -- local. We're going to have local education.
We're going to appoint great Supreme Court justices. 
And folks, we're going to start winning again. We're going to win at every level. We're going to win so much, you're going to get tired of winning, I'm telling you.
You're going to be begging me, Mr. President -- you will send your great quarterback, right? He will come to the White House. Everybody respects him. He'll come to the White House, and he'll say, Mr. President, the people of Wisconsin, they can't stand winning so much. 
Could you tone it down just a little bit? I will say, I just can't do that. We are going to win more, and more and more, we're going to win at every level.
But we are going to win. We are going to make America great again. We're going to make America safe again.
Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. Thank you.
Thank you for the invitation to speak to you today. It's wonderful to be in Detroit.
We now begin a great national conversation about economic renewal for America. It's a conversation about how to Make American Great Again for everyone, and especially those who have the very least.
The City of Detroit Is Where Our Story Begins
Detroit was once the economic envy of the world. The people of Detroit helped power America to its position of global dominance in the 20th century.
When we were governed by an America First policy, Detroit was booming. Engineers, builders, laborers, shippers and countless others went to work each day, provided for their families, and lived out the American Dream.
But for many living in this city, that dream has long ago vanished.
When we abandoned the policy of America First, we started rebuilding other countries instead of our own. The skyscrapers went up in Beijing, and in many other cities around the world, while the factories and neighborhoods crumbled in Detroit. Our roads and bridges fell into disrepair, yet we found the money to resettle millions of refugees at taxpayer expense.
Today, Detroit has a per capita income of under $15,000 dollars, about half of the national average. 40 percent of the city's residents live in poverty, over two-and-half times the national average. The unemployment rate is more than twice the national average. Half of all Detroit residents do not work.
Detroit tops the list of Most Dangerous Cities in terms of violent crime—these are the silenced victims whose stories are never told by Hillary Clinton, but victims whose suffering is no less real or permanent.
In short, the city of Detroit is the living, breathing example of my opponent's failed economic agenda. Every policy that has failed this city, and so many others, is a policy supported by Hillary Clinton.
She supports the high taxes and radical regulation that forced jobs out of your community…and the crime policies that have made you less safe…and the immigration policies that have strained local budgets...and the trade deals like NAFTA, signed by her husband, that have shipped your jobs to Mexico and other countries… and she supports the education policies that deny your students choice, freedom and opportunity.
She is the candidate of the past.
Ours is the campaign of the future.
This is a city controlled by Democratic politicians at every level, and unless we change policies, we will not change results.
Today, I will outline my economic vision. In the coming weeks, we will be offering more detail on all of these policies, and the ones we have already rolled out can be viewed on my campaign website.
Our opposition, on the other hand, has long ago run out of ideas. All Hillary Clinton has to offer is more of the same: more taxes, more regulations, more bureaucrats, more restrictions on American energy and American production.
If you were a foreign power looking to weaken America, you couldn't do better than Hillary Clinton's economic agenda.
Nothing would make our foreign adversaries happier than for our country to tax and regulate our companies and our jobs out of existence.
The one common feature of every Hillary Clinton idea is that it punishes you for working and doing business in the United States. Every policy she has tilts the playing field towards other countries at our expense.
That's why she tries to distract us with tired political rhetoric that seeks to label us, divide us, and pull us apart.
My campaign is about reaching out to everyone as Americans, and returning to a government that puts the American people first.
Here is what an America First economic plan looks like.
First, let's talk tax reform.
Taxes are one of the biggest differences in this race.
Hillary Clinton—who has spent her career voting for tax increases—plans another massive job-killing $1.3 trillion-dollar tax increase. Her plan would tax many small businesses by almost fifty percent.
Recently, at a campaign event, Hillary Clinton short-circuited again—to use a now famous term—when she accidentally told the truth and said she wanted to raise taxes on the middle class.
I am proposing an across-the-board income tax reduction, especially for middle-income Americans. This will lead to millions of new good-paying jobs.
The rich will pay their fair share, but no one will pay so much that it destroys jobs, or undermines our ability to compete.
As part of this reform, we will eliminate the Carried Interest Deduction and other special interest loopholes that have been so good for Wall Street investors, and people like me, but unfair to American workers.
Tax simplification will be a major feature of the plan.
Our current tax code is so burdensome and complex that we waste 9 billion hours a year in tax code compliance.
My plan will reduce the current number of brackets from 7 to 3, and dramatically streamline the process. We will work with House Republicans on this plan, using the same brackets they have proposed: 12, 25 and 33 percent. For many American workers, their tax rate will be zero.
While we will develop our own set of assumptions and policies, agreeing in some areas but not in others, we will be focused on the same shared goals and guided by the same shared principles: jobs, growth and opportunity.
These reforms will offer the biggest tax revolution since the Reagan Tax Reform, which unleashed years of continued economic growth and job creation.
We will Make America Grow Again.
In the days ahead, we will provide more details on this plan and how it will help you and your family. It will present a night-and-day contrast to the job-killing, tax-raising, poverty-inducing Obama-Clinton agenda.
The State of New York has already lived through Hillary Clinton's failed leadership. The Washington Post just published a devastating article on Hillary Clinton's broken promises. She pledged 200,000 jobs for upstate New York as Senator. But what happened? The Washington Post writes, and I quote: "upstate job growth stagnated overall during her tenure, with manufacturing jobs plunging nearly 25 percent…the former first lady was unable to pass big ticket legislation… Many promised jobs never materialized and others migrated to other states as she turned to her first presidential run…data shows that upstate actually lost jobs during Clinton's first term."
Compare that to my record. In a recent New York Post article by Steve Cuozzo, "How Donald Trump Helped Save New York City," the paper writes that I—and this is a direct quote—"waded into a landscape of empty Fifth Avenue storefronts, the dust-bowl mugging ground that was Central Park and a Wall Street area seemingly on its last legs as companies moved out…almost by force of will —  rode to the rescue. Expressing rare faith in the future, he was instrumental in kick-starting the regeneration of neighborhoods and landmarks almost given up for dead."
This is what I want to do for our country—I want to jumpstart America.
Now let's look at what the Obama-Clinton policies have done nationally.
Their policies produced 1.2% growth, the weakest so-called recovery since the Great Depression, and a doubling of the national debt.
There are now 94.3 million Americans outside the labor force. It was 80.5 million when President Obama took office, an increase of nearly 14 million people.
The Obama-Clinton agenda of tax, spend and regulate has created a silent nation of jobless Americans.
Home ownership is at its lowest rate in 51 years.
Nearly 12 million have been added to the food stamp rolls since President Obama took office. Another nearly 7 million Americans were added to the ranks of those in poverty.
We have the lowest labor force participation rates in four decades.
58 percent of African-American youth are either outside the labor force or not employed.
1 in 5 American households do not have a single member in the labor force. These are the real unemployment numbers—the five percent figure is one of the biggest hoaxes in modern politics.
Meanwhile, American households are earning more than $4,000 less today than they were sixteen years ago.
The average worker today pays 31.5 percent of their wages to income and payroll taxes. On top of that, state and local taxes consume another 10 percent.
The United States also has the highest business tax rate among the major industrialized nations of the world, at 35 percent. It's almost 40 percent when you add in taxes at the state level.
In other words, we punish companies for making products in America—but let them ship products into the U.S. tax-free if they move overseas.
This is backwards. All of our policies should be geared towards keeping jobs and wealth inside the United States.
Under my plan, no American company will pay more than 15% of their business income in taxes. Small businesses will benefit the most from this plan. Hillary Clinton's plan will require small business to pay as much as three times more in taxes than what I am proposing, and her onerous regulations will put them totally out of business. I am going to cut regulations massively.
Our lower business tax will also end job-killing corporate inversions, and cause trillions in new dollars and wealth to come pouring into our country—and into cities like Detroit. To help unleash this new job creation, we will allow businesses to immediately expense new business investments.
No one will gain more from these proposals than low-and-middle income Americans.
My plan will also help reduce the cost of childcare by allowing parents to fully deduct the average cost of childcare spending from their taxes.
We are also going to bring back trillions of dollars from American businesses that is now parked overseas. Our plan will bring that cash home, applying a 10 percent tax. This money will be re-invested in states like Michigan.
Finally, no family will have to pay the death tax. American workers have paid taxes their whole lives, and they should not be taxed again at death—it's just plain wrong. We will repeal it.
Next comes regulatory reform
As with taxes, I will have one overriding goal when it comes to regulation: I want to keep jobs and wealth in America.
Motor vehicle manufacturing is one of the most heavily regulated industries in the country. The U.S. economy today is twenty-five percent smaller than it would have been without the surge of regulations since 1980.
It is estimated that current overregulation is costing our economy as much as $2 trillion dollars a year—that's money taken straight out of cities like yours.
The federal register is now over 80,000 pages long. As the Wall Street Journal noted, President Obama has issued close to four hundred new major regulations since taking office, each with a cost to the American economy of $100 million or more.
In 2015 alone, the Obama Administration unilaterally issued more than 2,000 new regulations—each a hidden tax on American consumers, and a massive lead weight on the American economy.
It is time to remove the anchor dragging us down.
Upon taking office, I will issue a temporary moratorium on new agency regulations. My running mate, Mike Pence, signed a similar order when he became governor of Indiana. This will give our American companies the certainty they need to reinvest in our community, get cash off of the sidelines, start hiring for new jobs, and expanding businesses.
I will also immediately cancel all illegal and overreaching executive orders.
Next, I will ask each and every federal agency to prepare a list of all of the regulations they impose on Americans which are not necessary, do not improve public safety, and which needlessly kill jobs. Those regulations will be eliminated.
We are in a competition with the world, and I want America to win. When I am president, we will.
One of the most important reforms of all is trade reform
As Bernie Sanders has said, Hillary Clinton has bad judgment. We've seen this bad judgment overseas, in Libya, Iraq, and Syria. We've seen it in Iran. We've seen it from President Obama, when he gives $150 billion to Iran, the number one terror state, and even gives them $400 million in money-laundered cash as a ransom payment.
But we've also seen the terrible Obama-Clinton judgment right here in Detroit.
Hillary Clinton has supported the trade deals stripping this city, and this country, of its jobs and wealth.
She supported Bill Clinton's NAFTA, she supported China's entrance into the World Trade Organization, she supported the job-killing trade deal with South Korea, and she supports the Trans-Pacific Partnership.
Let's talk about South Korea for a moment, because it so perfectly illustrates the broken promises that have hurt so many American workers.
President Obama, and the usual so-called experts who've been wrong about every trade deal for decades, predicted that the trade deal with South Korea would increase our exports to South Korea by more than $10 billion—resulting in some 70,000 jobs.
Like Hillary Clinton's broken promises to New York, these pledges all turned out to be false. Instead of creating 70,000 jobs, it has killed nearly 100,000, according to the Economic Policy Institute. Our exports to South Korea haven't increased at all, but their imports to us have surged more than $15 billion—more than doubling our trade deficit with that country.
The next betrayal will be the Trans-Pacific Partnership. Hillary Clinton's closest friend, Terry McAuliffe, confirmed what I have said on this from the beginning: if sent to the Oval Office, Hillary Clinton will enact the TPP. Guaranteed. Her donors will make sure of it.
A vote for Hillary Clinton is a vote for TPP—and it's also a vote for NAFTA.
Our annual trade deficit in goods with Mexico has risen from close to zero in 1993 to almost $60 billion. Our total trade deficit in goods hit nearly $800 billion last year.
This is a strike at the heart of Michigan, and our nation as a whole.
According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, before NAFTA went into effect, there were 285,000 auto workers in Michigan. Today, that number is only 160,000.
Detroit is still waiting for Hillary Clinton's apology. I expect Detroit will get that apology right around the same time Hillary Clinton turns over the 33,000 emails she deleted.
Hillary Clinton's Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) will be an even bigger disaster for the auto industry. In fact, Ford Motor Company has announced its opposition to the deal.
According to the Economic Policy Institute, the U.S. trade deficit with the proposed TPP member countries cost over 1 million manufacturing jobs in 2015.
By far the biggest losses occurred in motor vehicles and parts, which lost nearly 740,000 manufacturing jobs.
Michigan ranks first for jobs lost as a share of state workforce due to the trade deficit with TPP members.
Just imagine how many more automobile jobs will be lost if the TPP is actually approved. That is why I have announced we will withdraw from the deal before that can ever happen. Hillary Clinton will never withdraw from the TPP. She is bought, controlled and paid-for by her donors and special interests.
Because my only interest is the American people, I have previously laid out a detailed 7-point plan for trade reform, available on my website. It includes strong protections against currency manipulation, tariffs against any countries that cheat by unfairly subsidizing their goods, and it includes a renegotiation of NAFTA. If we don't get a better deal, we will walk away.
At the center of my plan is trade enforcement with China. This alone could return millions of jobs into our economy.
China is responsible for nearly half of our entire trade deficit. They break the rules in every way imaginable. China engages in illegal export subsidies, prohibited currency manipulation, and rampant theft of intellectual property. They also have no real environmental or labor protections, further undercutting American workers.
Just enforcing intellectual property rules alone could save millions of American jobs. According to the U.S. International Trade Commission, improved protection of America's intellectual property in China would produce more than 2 million more jobs right here in the United States.
Add to that the saved jobs from cracking down on currency cheating and product dumping, and we will bring trillions of dollars in new wealth and wages back to the United States.
Trade has big benefits, and I am in favor of trade. But I want great trade deals for our country that create more jobs and higher wages for American workers. Isolation is not an option, only great and well-crafted trade deals are.
Also critical to our economic renewal will be energy reform
The Obama-Clinton Administration has blocked and destroyed millions of jobs through their anti-energy regulations, while raising the price of electricity for both families and businesses.
As a result of recent Obama EPA actions coal-fired power plants across Michigan have either shut down entirely or undergone expensive conversions. The Obama-Clinton war on coal has cost Michigan over 50,000 jobs. Hillary Clinton says her plan will "put a lot of coal companies and coal miners out of business."
We will put our coal miners and steel workers back to work.
Clinton not only embraces President Obama's job-killing energy restrictions but wants to expand them, including going after oil and natural gas production that employs some 10 million Americans.
According to the Heritage Foundation, by 2030, the Obama-Clinton energy restrictions will eliminate another half a million manufacturing jobs, reduce economic output by $2.5 trillion dollars, and reduce incomes by $7,000 dollars per person.
A Trump Administration will end this war on the American worker, and unleash an energy revolution that will bring vast new wealth to our country.
According to the Institute for Energy Research, lifting the restrictions on all sources of American energy will:
Increase GDP by more than $100 billion dollars annually, add over 500,000 new jobs annually, and increase annual wages by more than $30 billion dollars over the next 7 years;
Increase federal, state, and local tax revenues by almost $6 trillion dollars over 4 decades;
Increase totaleconomic activity by more than $20 trillion dollars over the next 40 years.
The reforms I have outlined today are only the beginning
When we reform our tax, trade, energy and regulatory policies, we will open a new chapter in American Prosperity.
We can use this new wealth to rebuild our military and our infrastructure.
As part of this new future, we will also be rolling out proposals to increase choice and reduce cost in childcare, offering much-needed relief to American families. I will unveil my plan on this in the coming weeks that I have been working on with my daughter Ivanka and an incredible team of experts.
Likewise, our education reforms will help parents send their kids to a school of their choice.
We will also give our police and law enforcement the funds and support they need to restore law and order to this country. Without security, there can be no prosperity. We must have law and order.
In the coming days, we will be rolling out plans on all of these items. One of my first acts as President will be to repeal and replace disastrous Obamacare, saving another 2 million American jobs.
We will also rebuild our military, and get our allies to pay their fair share for the protection we provide—saving us countless more billions to invest in our own country.
We also have a plan, on our website, for a complete reform of the Veterans Health Administration. This is something so desperately needed to make sure our vets are fully supported and get the care they deserve.
Detroit—the Motor City—will come roaring back. We will offer a new future, not the same old failed policies of the past.
Our party has chosen to make new history by selecting a nominee from outside the rigged and corrupt system.
The other party has reached backwards into the past to choose a nominee from yesterday—who offers only the rhetoric of yesterday, and the policies of yesterday.
There will be no change under Hillary Clinton—only four more years of Obama.
But we are going to look boldly into the future.
We will build the next generation of roads, bridges, railways, tunnels, sea ports and airports that our country deserves.
American cars will travel the roads, American planes will connect our cities, and American ships will patrol the seas.
American steel will send new skyscrapers soaring.
We will put new American metal into the spine of this nation.
It will be American hands that rebuild this country, and it will be American energy—mined from American sources—that powers this country.
It will be American workers who are hired to do the job.
Americanism, not globalism, will be our new credo.
Our country will reach amazing new heights.
All we have to do is stop relying on the tired voices of the past.
We can't fix a rigged system by relying on the people who rigged it in the first place.
We can't solve our problems by relying on the politicians who created them.
Only by changing to new leadership, and new solutions, will we get new results.
We need to stop believing in politicians, and start believing in America.
Before everything great that has ever happened, the doubters have always said it couldn't be done.
America is ready to prove the doubters wrong.
They want you to think small. I am asking you to think big.
We are ready to dream great things for our country once again.
We are ready to show the world that America is Back—Bigger, and Better and Stronger Than Ever Before.
Thank you, and God Bless You.
Thank you. Thank you very much.  Thank you very much. So amazing. Rudy just left. He just said, "I don't believe this. This is unbelievable." Nobody believes it.
The crowds we're getting -- I'm the messenger, but I'll tell you what, the message is the right message. We're tired of incompetence. We're tired of not taking care of our military. We're tired of not taking care of our vets, who are being taken care of very poorly.
We're tired of so many different things. And this is what happens. So, our mayor, my friend, Rudy Giuliani just walks, I'm telling you, he said, "I don't believe this. This is incredible."
And what he hasn't seen, and your governor, by the way, who's a great guy.
And he's now seeing it, they're walking outside because there are thousands of people outside that can't get in. I said, "Rudy, you think this is bad, go take a look outside."
So I just want to thank Pat and Rudy and I want to thank everybody for being here. And we are going to have a good time. We love North Carolina. We love North Carolina 
We did really well in the primaries if you remember, and I hear we are doing really well now. We have to win. That November 8 day is so important.
You know, I bring things up like the judges right? Supreme Court Justices, we have to get - you know, you could have as many as four? I guess it's a scenario where this president could pick five Supreme Court Justices.
And if you pick two that are left, left, left, it's going to be a disaster for our country. Your Second Amendment, the National Rifle Association endorsed and they endorsed me early, a long time ago. And they're great people, Wayne and Chris, they are great people. 
But if you - if you do something with these - I'll tell you what, Justices right now, you lost a great one with Scalia. We want to replace with Justices very much like Justice Scalia and that's going to happen. It is so important.
So if for no other reason, I mean it's such an important - it's one of the most important elections for a lot of reasons, not just that but for a lot of reasons. But that's so obviously, because for whatever reason, they say this could be the presidency. This next four years is where you will pick more Supreme Court Justices than anybody has every had the opportunity to do. Believe me, I'll make you very proud of those Justices everyday. 
So we had an incident a few days ago with the $400 million - all cash, right -- $400 million in all cash, anybody know what that looks like? That's a lot of cash. That's a lot of case.
And honestly, it's so sad. Think of it, going to Iran, a terrorist state. Now I happen to think they have plenty of money, we've given then $150 billion, so the $400 million is just, you know - I happen to think it goes into their accounts in Switzerland personally.
Now, a lot of people say, "no, no, it's used for terror," and they use it for terror because it's the number one terror funder - not even close. But I also think that when you have $400 million in cash, different denominations, do you see the size of this? I guess they did release the pictures after all. They released pictures.
And interesting I'll tell you, I sort of think it goes into bank accounts, right? You know, I sort of think they take it, they probably use some for this, some for that. You can do a lot of things.
And Obama said that he did it because we don't have a working account with Iran. Do you believe that? How long does it take to set up an account? Right? You don't have a working account, you set up an account, right?
You set up an account and it takes about - look, what's going on in this country - folks, folks, what's going on in this country is insane. And we have people running our country that don't know what they're doing, they're grossly incompetent, and it's time. We have to make change, real change. Not Obama change, we have to make change.
Whether it's Bergdahl, we get Bergdahl who was a traitor, and they get five of the greatest killers that they've wanted for eight years. We get Bergdahl -- I call it the five for one trade. For the Iran deal, where we get nothing, we get nothing.
They get ultimately, they have the path, beautiful path, they'll get way, way earlier than that. They'll get nuclear weapons, so if you get Trump you're going to see a lot of changes to that deal. That'll happen fast. 
You're going to see some big changes and what I really -- I mean, I saw where President Obama said that the $400 million in cash was not, had nothing to do with the release of the hostages, right? It really doesn't work, does it? Does it? I mean, remember Obamacare, "you're going to keep your doctor, you're going to keep your plan, over and over again, you're going to keep your doctor." It was a lie.
And in fact, if he didn't make the lie, he would have never gotten it approved because most Democrats, many of the Democrats didn't want to do it. It was only that, that got them to sign it and to approve it. And it was a lie.
And the $400 million, and from what the rumor is and from what the reports are, the hostages couldn't leave the airport until this other plane arrived. They don't know why, but I think we all have a pretty good reason why. It was all a big lie, it was all a big lie.
And it's so sad to see, and let me tell you, Hillary Clinton is going to be four more years of Obama, but maybe worse. Maybe worse. There'll be four more years. Four more years of ISIS, four more years of high taxes. You know yesterday I had a -- at a big event, really. It turned out to be a very big event in Detroit 
Good event, very good. And we got wonderful reviews and a lot of good comments. But the thing I'm doing, I'm cutting taxes big league. Especially for the middle class and especially for businesses. Because businesses are dying and that means small businesses, businesses period. 
Businesses are leaving our country like they've never left before. They're going all over. They're going to Mexico, that I can tell you. Mexico is like the eighth wonder of the world. You know I've been telling a story, a friend of mine, good friend of mine, good guy. He builds plants, he builds plants for cars, for computers, you know where they make them. Massive plants. And I said to him, how are you doing?
And he's worked in North Carolina, by the way. I said to him, how are you doing? He said phenomenal. He's like, "I think the biggest in the world at this -" that's what he does. Great guy. I said how's it all going? He said, 'you've got to see Mexico, Donald. It's the eighth wonder of the world. What we're building there is like, never has been built. We've never seen anything like it".
And I said, how are we doing in the United States? I'm more interested in that, OK? It's OK I guess. Right? You know, America first, folks. America first. America. 
Right, America first. 
America first. We get a little tired of these deals where they actually put, and you know why, because of lobbyists and special interests and people representing and people wanting it to happen. It's just not that they want other countries to benefit over us. There are reasons for it and you know, when I raise money, and I'm putting up a lot of money for my own campaign, I'm funding me.
And I'm raising for the Republican party. And we're getting a lot of money from the small donors.
Remember two months ago? Well, I hadn't started; I wanted to make sure I get the nomination before I start, right?
Let me get the nomination, please. And then I took a lot of heat from the press, the world's most dishonest people, by the way.  Terrible.  Terrible. 
Those cameras will not move and show how many people are in this auditorium. Those cameras -- those cameras are not going on the move unless we have a protester, is there a protester up there in the quota? Any protesters? 
If we had a protester that's the only time they move because they're showing something that in their mind is a bad thing, so then they move. But I like that, I've always liked my protesters because the cameras show these massive crowds and people say wow, was that a big crowd.
You know, I go home to my wife, I say how's it going? She says darling, your speech was very good, were there many people there? I say yeah, about 7,000. That's a small group.
Its only confined -- I mean you had to see outside. I felt so badly -- I came up -- I came up -- thank you and I love you too. Who said that? Who said that, huh? 
Thank you, thank you. But I came up with Rudy from New York and we're driving up and we're going block after block after block the line. And I said are those people going to be able to get in?
They said the place is already full. And Rudy just said man; I've never seen anything like that. Maybe a couple of days before an election, but this is what's happening. Because of the fact we have a movement going, folks.
Because people are so tired of them. 
They're so tired of them. 
So -- and by the way -- and by the way, voter ID, watch with that. Watch with voter ID, why aren't we having voter ID? In other words, I wanna vote, here's my identification, I wanna vote, as opposed to somebody coming up and voting 15 times for Hillary. 
Well -- and I will not tell you to vote 15 times. I will not tell you to do that, OK? 
You won't vote 15 times. But people will, they'll vote many times and how that could've happened , it's unbelievable. And the governor just told me that they're going before the United States Supreme Court Justice Roberts and maybe they can get a stay. Let's see what happens, OK? 
Let's see what happens. That's a very important thing. But I wrote a few things down and to me, so important -- yes, darling thank you. 
Unstable Hillary lacks the judgment, now; Bernie Sanders said she lacks judgment, right? And nobody said anything about it, no problem. He said you lack judgment. And -- during one of the debates, nobody said, it was fine.
When I say it they say that's terrible the way you talk. 
She does, she lacks judgment, she lacks temperament and I'm the one that used unfit many, many months ago. And now they've turned it around, use it on me, unfit? I'm unfit? That's -- that's a first. But she lacks the temperament and the moral character to lead this country, its very simple.
She really does. She's a dangerous person who doesn't tell the truth which has been proven very loudly.
I've never seen a -- I don't think we've ever had greater proof of that, of anybody. 
And she has disregarded the lives of Americans -- you see what's happening -- with what she has done with her server? And you know why she did that.
So, I just look at this, and I said that if she gets elected, she will cause the destruction of this country from within. Remember that. Remember that. 
She will -- she will allow people into our country that will do damage, they will do damage, folks. You look at what's going on in the world -- look at France; take a good look at France. I have friends that go to France. They used to love France.
They say, no thank you. They don't expect to be going back anytime for a long time.
I have one friend, I said, how was your trip this year to France? He said, France isn't France anymore. We're not going. And so many people are saying that.
Look at what's going on with Germany. Look at what's happening with Germany. Look at the crime; look at the problems. We have enough problems in our country right now. We don't need additional problems, folks. We don't need additional problems. 
And for all we know, this could be the great Trojan Horse. This could be. We don't know who these people are.
Now, they're coming in through Obama. And I looked at a chart yesterday, and it's like for years, it's sort of like this, a little uptick. And the last number or period of time, it's like, "Wah, wah, wah, wah." There -- I have never seen anything like it.
They're letting them in, and again, you can't vet them. You don't know where they come from. We don't know -- look at the damage that two people in San Bernardino, probably radicalized the guy -- the woman coming in. Look at the damage in Orlando. Look at the damage that was done in Orlando by one wack job, one sick wack job. And you know what he was screaming? He's screaming what they all scream.
And we have to get smart, folks. We don't need the problems -- and we've already got those problems, just so you understand. Because they're coming into the country, they're being put where nobody even knows where they are.
It's like, if I were the enemy, I would say, I can't believe they're that stupid. They're taking my people and they're putting them all over the place, because you have great military right here.
And our military...
Our military cannot be beaten. But you know what could happen? When we don't know where they are, where they're coming, you've them all over the place.
And folks, it's some. You don't need many; you don't need many. One person in Orlando. Two people -- look at in France, 130. Now, they have the strictest gun laws anywhere in the world, France, Paris. One hundred and thirty people killed, 130.
And I've said 100 times, if this man or if this woman, or if that woman or man had a gun in Paris or in San Bernardino and the bullets were flying in the other direction, would have been a whole different story, folks.
Would have been a whole different. 
For those -- for those foolish people that say Second Amendment, would have been a whole different -- and I'd go a step further. If these people, bad people, bad, sick, sick, sick people.
If these people knew there were guns in the good guys hands, right, they probably wouldn't have gone in in the first place, all right? All right? Gun free -- what do you think of these gun- free zones?
Do you know what a gun-free zone is? That's like -- they study where the gun-free zones -- if they would have known you had guns, if they would have known that they were going to be shot at from the other side, it would have been a whole different story. Maybe it wouldn't have even happened in the first place.
So they better not come here. They better not. They better not. 
So recently a book came out a couple of weeks ago. A Secret Service agent made a statement because she said the other day she short-circuited. Hey, could you imagine if I said that "I short circuited"? 
They would be calling for my execution, -- electric chair. They'd bring back the electric chair. It would be a whole different ball game if I said it, believe me. But the Secret Service agent said, "She simply lacks the integrity and temperament to serve in the office," right?
"From the bottom of my soul," he said, "I know this to be true. Her leadership style, which is volcanic and impulsive, and she makes bad decisions. OK? Hey, you know, it's one thing to make bad decisions. It's another thing to be wacky and make bad decisions. 
She is disdainful of the rules set for everyone else and she hasn't changed a bit. This is -- that was the good thing. I couldn't say the bad things. It was too much. Nobody would even -- nobody would even believe it. You've got to see this book. Nobody would believe because it's so terrible, so terrible.
And she comes across like this woman -- nice, easy -- but she's not. And -- and she's -- listen -- she's not a leader, not a leader. And she is a liar. 
Hey, hey -- 33,000 e-mails are gone. OK? 33,000 e-mails are gone. They're gone. How do you get rid of 33,000 e-mails? Who sends 33,000 e-mails? I mean, 33 -- do you know how many that is? I think that's like 24 hours a day reading them or sending them, but it wouldn't matter. For years, 33,000 e-mails are missing.
And she's so guilty. She's so guilty. 
I think it's a tremendous blot in our country. I really mean that. I think what happened over the last two weeks with respect to her, especially in light of the fact that General Petraeus and many others have suffered unbelievable consequences. I think it's a tremendous blot on our country, a tremendous blot. Just remember that.
But I just looked at this -- the economic failures of Obama and Clinton, et cetera. Obama-Clinton economic policies have produced 1.2 percent economic growth, the weakest so-called recovery since the Great Depression. Now, this is, like, unbelievable -- 1.2.
Do you know China goes to 7 percent or 8 percent, it's like a national catastrophe. Now, what they do is they cut their currency.
They devalue their currency, and big league, and then all of our businesses continue to be drained out of the United States. Our money, our jobs. They make our product, they sell our product to us. No tax, no nothing, you devalue -- see devaluing is sort of cheating.
You know, it's sort of like cheating. Now I have great relationships with China. I've done great business with China, I've done really well with China. I have these tenants, I sell condos, I own the Bank of America building in San Francisco with a group, a great group, thank you ma'am. 
Got to win -- got to win North Carolina. Thank you. 
Thank you. But they -- it's cheating, it's really cheating. And when I look at these trade deals -- it's so sad -- where we lose $800 billion -- billion with B -- dollars a year on trade with China alone, it's $400 billion and $500 billion and $505 billion. This is year in and year out, it's actually amazing that our country keeps going. But what has happened is, we have people in the audience, in 18 years, they're making less money now than they made 18 years ago, in real wages, 18.
And in many cases, they're working two and three jobs, OK? But they're making less money now than they made 18 years ago. And those stats come right out, real wages. They're working harder, they're getting older.
So in theory it's supposed to be the other way, you know you work and you're young, you don't care. Get a little older, it's like, oh by the way, how about me? I think I'm working harder too, if you want to know. 
I never worked this hard in my life. But I like it, I like it, I love it actually because I've met so many incredible people. You know I really got -- thank you -- I really got a tremendous understanding of this country. Because I'm going to places that I've heard about, I've known about, I'm stopping everywhere. And I see the carnage that NAFTA has caused, I see the carnage. It's been horrible. I see upstate New York, I see North Carolina, but I see every state. You look at New England. New England got really whacked. New England got hit.
You look at Ohio, what happened there, and still happening. By the way, this isn't like it's going to happen or it's all over, it's getting worse. You look at Ohio, you look at Michigan, what's going on with the car plants being built in Mexico, is unbelievable.
And more and more, you know they're moving. We were just talking about the autoworkers yesterday. Where they've lost over 100,000 autoworkers in Michigan, the state of Michigan, which is our car capital and it's really not the car capital anymore. Mexico will become the new car capital of the world in a very short period of time. No, think of it.
And that's only because we allow it to happen. And I like Mexico. And I respect the leaders of Mexico because they're much smarter, they're much street smarter, but they're much smarter and more cunning than our leaders. But you have to see what's going on. And one of the reasons I won Indiana was Bobby Knight, because he's the best, he's the greatest. 
But one of the reasons is that Carrier Air Conditioning let 1,400 people go and they're building a plant in Mexico. And we're not going to let it happen . . .
It's a suicidal pact for our country. And you know I've watched for years.
I was never a politician until 14 months ago. So I can't believe I'm saying I'm a politician. 
Can't believe it. 
But -- but I've been watching for years and I've watched as -- as the government tries to keep businesses from leaving our country and going to other countries. And I've seen low interest loans, I've seen zero interest loans, I've seen all sorts of subsidies.
I get it. That stuff's not gonna work, that's not gonna work. What's gonna work is -- as an example, Carrier moves to Mexico and you wish him a lot of luck, good luck, have a nice plant. I hope my friend bills it, right?
And then you know what happens? When they make their air conditioners -- and then think they're gonna sell that air conditioner, people living in Indianapolis -- where they come from -- for a similar price.
And they think they're gonna sell it there and have no repercussions? With me, they have repercussions, OK? 
With me, they have repercussions. 
With me, we inform them that if you move, you're gonna pay a 35 percent tax on every single air conditioner that pour across our now very secure borders. 
And two things are gonna happen, one of two things -- one of two things are gonna happen. Number one, if you get them in time, they're not moving. Throws it all off-balance, since they're all off-kilter. Number one they're not -- now, nobody -- people would say well, why doesn't anybody use this? Why doesn't anybody mention it?
I'll tell you why. Because they're controlled by their lobbyists, they're politicians. And Carrier goes out or whoever it might be this -- I'm just using Carrier as an example. Its hundreds and thousands. Its thousands of company.
And millions of jobs we're talking about. I was looking at numbers -- I'm not gonna repeat the numbers because they'll say I was wrong, it can't be that high, I couldn't believe it was that high. But it's thousands of companies and millions and millions of jobs.
And you'd say why aren't -- like, why doesn't somebody else say what Trump is saying? So I'm controlled by myself because I'm putting up my money, OK? I'm putting up my money. 
But...
Although we raised, did you see $82 million last month, $82 million last month? 
And a lot of it -- a lot of the money was the small donations which Republicans never get. A lot of them -- I think it averaged $61 a hit, $61 can you imagine that? The total that we raised and in fact, in May I told you I was taking heat because they said Donald Trump didn't raise any money.
And they told you why, right? I didn't raise it because I didn't know -- I gotta make sure I got the nomination. If I didn't get the nomination, I would've gone to Turnberry and played golf, OK? 
In Scotland. But you know what? I got the nomination so now I had a start. And we raised $51 million in June, right? A lot of it in small donations and we raised $82 million in July.
People are going, even the haters back there, the people that truly hate Trump -- they said, that's amazing. So we're doing all right. And people look, they want -- they wanna hear this message. Because this is a message this is an important message.
But when you say -- and when you hear what I just said -- you charge a tariff or a tax. And guess what? And people said why hasn't the -- why haven't the politicians, they're smart, why haven't they done it?
Because they're controlled by people that work for many of these companies and they're not gonna do it. Whether it's donors or whether its special interests or lobbyists they control because they want it to happen.
And honestly, I think it's a total disgrace.
I think it's a total disgrace for the millions of jobs, and for the thousands and thousands of companies that have left our country. If I were here to speak to every one of those companies for five minutes -- bye, bye.
They were so quiet. You know, I like the Hillary protesters. You know why? They're so nice and quiet. The Bernie protesters were brutal; they were tough. Right? The Hillary protesters had no spirit. Did you see that?
She starts screaming and the guy walks up, "I'll go." 
The Bernie ones were -- they had a lot more spirit. I think we're going to get a lot of Bernie voters, if you want to know the truth. Because they do understand that trade is killing us. Trade. 
So, a few things, a few other facts I wrote, which I think are amazing. One is the 1.2 percent lowest in, you know, forget it. That's not a recovery. It's probably much -- don't forget, when they announced 1.2 percent, that means it's lower. And 1.2 is starting to set records.
The national debt -- so, we're up to almost $20 trillion -- $20 trillion! The national debt under Obama has doubled. Think of it, doubled. Might be, I think by the time he gets out, it's going to more than double, but again, we have to very accurate
Because I'll say -- they'll say, well, it hasn't quite doubled. Believe me, by the time he gets out it will have more than doubled.
The national debt has doubled. And you know the bad part about that? You think if the national debt has doubled, our infrastructure would be great, our country would be in great shape
We'd have beautiful roads, beautiful highways. You see where like 50 percent of the bridges are in danger in this country. And the roadways are a mess.
I have a friend, he's in the trucking business. He said, you know, for years, he had no problem. Now he buys these big, beautiful trucks, and the wheels get wiped out because of the potholes on the highways and things that he never had. So, you think with all of that doubling of the national debt, you'd really think that we'd be in good shape from the infrastructure standpoint, right? We're not. We're in very bad shape.
U.S. trade deficit, $800 -- almost $800 billion. Nearly 24 million Americans in their prime earning years are out of the labor force, right?
In the last seven years, another 14 million people have left the work force. Think of it. These are the real numbers, not the 5 percent nonsense.
You know, you look for a job, you can't find your job, you go home, you share, you go to your parents, you go to your friends, you do whatever. You gave up, and now you're considered -- statistically, you're considered employed.
Those people are not employed; these are great people. And there are plenty of them in here.
I mean, we have great people. We have the most loyal people. We have the smartest people. You know, so many of my people, they're so smart.
They like to say, well, Trump, I don't know if he's got this right -- let me tell you, we have the smartest people. We have the people that are the smartest, and the strongest, and the best and the hardest working. 
We have the smartest people. We'll put I.Q.s among -- some of us, we couldn't say all of us, right -- against any I.Q.s that we -- we have to deal with, . . .
In the last seven years, 14 million. One in five American households do not have a single member in the workforce. Pretty bad.
Homeownership -- this is one that is amazing to me -- today, homeownership is at its lowest rate in 51 years.
So you own homes, I mean it always used to be the dream to own a home, right? The American home.
Lowest that its been in so many years, 51 years. Nearly 12 million people and more Americans are dependent on food stamps and 2 million more Latino Americans live in poverty under Obama and Clinton -- under Obama; because Clinton's just gonna carry on.
You know, I don't know if you saw. I gave a massive tax decrease yesterday at regulations, we're gonna get rid of so many of them. But Clinton is gonna double your taxes; she's gonna double up your taxes.
And she's trying to say well, I don't know like Trump's way -- she's gonna double up your taxes. You're gonna have massive tax increases is Clinton gets in. Enjoy -- enjoy it folks, if that happens.
Fifty eight percent of African American youth are not employed. How sad is that? American households are earning $4,000 less -- listen to this one, today -- than they were 16 years ago. Many workers are earning less than 1970 in real dollars.
So 1970 -- that's a long time ago, right? They're earning in real dollars less money. So under my plan, we're gonna create millions of new and really good paying jobs. You know, it's interesting because even the pro-Obama people say about the jobs that they're bad jobs.
I've heard it from many of the people. They're trying to defend him. But they say they're bad jobs, they're not good jobs. The good jobs -- the good jobs have left. But we'll create millions of new good paying jobs but good jobs.
That's so important, that's so important. 
Everyone's taxes will go down. Hillary Clinton has supported tax increases on the middle class for her entire career. She's voted for higher taxes, 235 times in the Senate. That's all? I thought it was more than that, 235 times. I hope there's not a decimal point in there or so, 23.5 times.
But I don't think there is -- voted for higher taxes, 235 times in the Senate. Now, she's planning another job killing -- $1.3 trillion tax increase, that's what her tax increase is gonna be, folks. Like you're not paying enough, right?
Her plan will tax many small business -- businesses who are already in deep trouble out of business. Then we have -- we will make -- and this is so important, this was an Ivanka Trump, OK? My daughter, so great. 
So great. 
We're gonna make childcare expenses tax deductible for working families. 
And just many, many other things. I mean, we're gonna make some unbelievable changes and it's -- it's so easy. Again, you know regulations -- I'm traveling all over and I'm meeting with business owners -- and beyond business owners, even people that work at the businesses, they're being laid off because of it.
Regulations; if I told you -- and I'm so surprised, this is probably the biggest surprise -- if you have a small business and I said, you can have one or the other, a major tax cut like we're gonna -- you know, we're bringing it down to 15 percent from more than -- much more than double that.
But if I told you that you could have a massive tax decrease or really substantially -- but in a real way -- cut regulations -- a hundred percent of the people I talk to would take the regulation, if you could only have one or the other. It's amazing, its amazing
And that surprised me. Surprised you too? 
Surprised him, too. 
A hundred percent. I mean, everybody -- businesses can't form anymore, the tax -- the regulatory burden is so incredible that you can't form businesses -- very hard -- and businesses that are in existence are being put out of existence for regulations that don't do anything. We want safety regulations, we want environmental regulations. We're not, you know, people that don't want these things. We have to have that.
We want clear air, we want clean water. We want clear water. But -- but...
To do that -- and there are certain things that you want to do, but to do that, you don't have to destroy our country and destroy our businesses. 
So you know, I just wrote this down today. Hillary wants to raise taxes. It's a comparison. I want to lower them. Hillary wants to expand regulations, which she does big league. Can you believe that? I will reduce them very, very substantially. Could be as much as 70, 75 percent. 
Hillary wants to shut down energy production. I want to expand it. 
Lower electric -- lower electric bills, folks. Hillary wants to abolish -- essentially abolish the Second Amendment. By the way, and if she gets to pick... 
If she gets to pick her judges, nothing you can do, folks. Although the Second Amendment people, maybe there is. I don't know. But -- but I'll tell you what. That will be a horrible day. If -- if Hillary gets to put her judges -- right now, we're tied. You see what's going on.
you see what's going on? We tied because Scalia - this was not suppose to happen. Justice Scalia was going to be around for ten more years at least and this is what happens. That was a horrible thing.
So now look at it. So Hillary essentially wants to abolish the Second Amendment. Now, speaking to the NRA folks - who are great - when you - when you -- and I'll tell you, they endorsed me. 
They endorsed me very early. My son's a member. I'm a member.
If you - we can add I think the National Rifle Association, we can add the Second Amendment to the Justices - they almost go - in a certain way, hand in hand. Now the Justices are going to do things that are so important and we have such great Justices, you saw my list of 11 that have been vetted and respected. 
And have gotten great. And they to a little equate - but if you don't do the right thing, either you're not going to have a Second Amendment or you're not going to have much of it left. And you're not going to be able to protect yourself, which you need
You know, when the bad guys burst into your house, they're not looking about into Second Amendments, and, do I have the right to do this? OK, the bad guys aren't going to be giving up their weapons
But the good people will say, "oh, well, that's the law." No, no, not going to happen, we can't let it happen. We can't let it happen. 
Hillary Clinton wants to have totally open borders where people flow into our country. 
Where they flow into our country, and they take your jobs, and they do lots of things. And I want people to come into our country but they have to do it through a process, they have to do it legally, right? 
So you have drugs pouring in. You have everything coming in.
You know, in New Hampshire, a great state, they have a tremendous heroin problem. I said to them, we will stop the drugs from pouring in to our country from the Southern border. They're going to stop. 
And by the way, we will build a wall. That's legal. 
Walls do work. Walls do work. 
Now here's one and you know -- I mean she doesn't look that way, but she is -- Hillary wants to invade foreign countries. That's what she does and look at the mess. So we've spent -- you know for two years, for three years, I've been saying we spent $2 trillion, right, in Iraq, more now, I guess. Somebody actually said to me the other day that they were talking about four or five trillion in the Middle East.
And I'm going to get the accurate number. They don't know the accurate number, the truth is they have no idea. They have no idea what we're doing. We're sending equipment over, the enemies take it in. We sent over 2,300 Humvees that are totally armor plated. They got stolen by the enemy, 2,300. I thought they meant like two or 23.
Or 230 was too much, 2,300 Humvees and they got stolen. They got taken by the enemy. You know, shot guns fired in the air, the ones we gave to the so-called allies, these great allies that we always pick, who end up being worse than the guys who we're trying to get out. 
So, terrible. Hillary and President Obama refused to use the term radical Islamic terrorism. Big problem. Big problem. Hillary wants to release violent criminals and criminal offenders from prison, that's wonderful, enjoy yourselves. I want to work with our police. Our police are so incredible, they're not getting the respect they deserve. 
Not getting the respect they deserve. 
And we're going to, in our country, restore law and order. We have to, we have to restore law and order. 
And the police are going to be careful and they're going to be studied and they're going to be -- but we have to restore law and order. What happened in Dallas, where all of those people were shot down. Absolutely, absolutely for no reason. Viciously shot down, and so many others. I was with one of the police groups the other day. They're endorsing me.
Of like, eight other states in the last short while where the same, smaller number, but the same thing was happening where police are being killed. We have to respect and cherish our police. 
School choice we want, common core we don't want. We've got to get rid of common core, bring educational...
And folks, and we have to re-negotiate with NAFTA. And by the way, going back to the wall, Mexico is going to pay for the wall. That I can tell you. 
Listen, you know these politicians, they don't know me. They don't understand me. And I am, I'm in a group of 50 people, these are real geniuses. These are 50 people that have been running our country forever and they said we can't support Donald Trump. The reason they can't, you know why, because I'm not going to hire these people, I don't want these people.
Take a look. Take a look at what these people -- these are sort of like the people that have been involved with Washington, making decisions militarily on defense, on other things -- take a look what has happened in our country. Our military is depleted, our vets aren't taken care of.
We can't beat ISIS. Can you imagine General George Patton, who is right now spinning in his grave, the great General Douglas MacArthur -- can you imagine -- and I say, because we have so many military people, and this is such a military state and I love it. 
I love. But can you imagine them seeing that we can't beat these 25 or 30,000 people, we can't beat them? We're fighting a political correct war.
It's a political correct war. I mean, you know what's going on. You know what's going on. These are people that chop off heads. These are people that, in steel cages, drop steel cages into the waters and drowned large numbers of people.
These are people that buried people in the sand. We've got to knock them out.
I was against the war in Iraq. We shouldn't have been to the war in Iraq. It destabilized the Middle East and I said that was going to happen. But we shouldn't have gotten out the way we got out.
The way we got out was insane. And Obama gave a date, and he -- and that's how ISIS happened, folks. Hence, the birth of ISIS. 
Congratulations, Hillary Clinton. Congratulate -- I mean, she -- she should get -- if I'm ISIS, I call her up and I give her the most valuable player award. OK? 
And I guarantee you with Libya, which was her baby, and all of the other mistakes she has made. Obama takes now, because obviously, for him, that's the better alternative, all right? But he has been an incompetent president. He has done a horrible job.  And I guarantee you that if he had it to it again -- and he would only say this to his wife -- but if he had it to do again, he would not have chosen Hillary Clinton to be his secretary of state, because she made so many horrible mistakes and cost so many lives.
And I mean lives on both sides. I'm not just saying -- I mean lives on both sides. She's inept; she's inept.
And to think that she is even allowed to run for the presidency of the United States, when she deleted and got rid of 33,000 e-mails is an embarrassment to our country, and it always will be, OK? It always will be. 
So -- so, I want to thank all of you for being here. Look, I'm going to be around, and we're going to be coming to North Carolina a lot. Got to win it, very important 
But -- the people are great. My daughter-in-law comes from North Carolina. I'm here all the time. 
But -- but people -- the people are great. The military is great. We are going to make America great again. 
We're going to start winning. We're going to put America first. We're going to make America safe again.
But never, ever forget, we are going to make America great again.
Thank you. Thank you, everybody. I'll be back soon. Thank you. God bless you.
Thank you. It’s great to be here in Charlotte. I just met with our many amazing employees right up the road at our property.
I’d like to take a moment to talk about the heartbreak and devastation in Louisiana, a state that is very special to me.
We are one nation. When one state hurts, we all hurt – and we must all work together to lift each other up. Working, building, restoring together.
Our prayers are with the families who have lost loved ones, and we send them our deepest condolences. Though words cannot express the sadness one feels at times like this, I hope everyone in Louisiana knows that our country is praying for them and standing with them to help them in these difficult hours.
We are one country, one people, and we will have together one great future.
Tonight, I’d like to talk about the New American Future we are going to create together.
Last week, I laid out my plan to bring jobs back to our country.
On Monday, I laid out my plan to defeat Radical Islamic Terrorism.
On Tuesday, in Wisconsin, I talked about how we are going to restore law and order to this country.
Let me take this opportunity to extend our thanks and our gratitude to the police and law enforcement officers in this country who have sacrificed so greatly in these difficult times.
The chaos and violence on our streets, and the assaults on law enforcement, are an attack against all peaceful citizens. If I am elected President, this chaos and violence will end – and it will end very quickly.
Every single citizen in our land has a right to live in safety.
To be one united nation, we must protect all of our people. But we must also provide opportunities for all of our people.
We cannot make America Great Again if we leave any community behind.
Nearly Four in ten African-American children are living in poverty.I will not rest until children of every color in this country are fully included in the American Dream.
Jobs, safety, opportunity. Fair and equal representation. This is what I promise to African-Americans, Hispanic-Americans, and all Americans.
But to achieve this New American Future we must break from the failures of the past.
As you know, I am not a politician. I have worked in business, creating jobs and rebuilding neighborhoods my entire adult life. I’ve never wanted to use the language of the insiders, and I’ve never been politically correct – it takes far too much time, and can often make more difficult.
Sometimes, in the heat of debate and speaking on a multitude of issues, you don’t choose the right words or you say the wrong thing. I have done that, and I regret it, particularly where it may have caused personal pain. Too much is at stake for us to be consumed with these issues.
But one thing I can promise you is this: I will always tell you the truth.
I speak the truth for all of you, and for everyone in this country who doesn’t have a voice.
I speak the truth on behalf of the factory worker who lost his or her job.
I speak the truth on behalf of the Veteran who has been denied the medical care they need – and so many are not making it. They are dying.
I speak the truth on behalf of the family living near the border that deserves to be safe in their own country but is instead living with no security at all.
Our campaign is about representing the great majority of Americans – Republicans, Democrats, Independents, Conservatives and Liberals – who read the newspaper, or turn on the TV, and don’t hear anyone speaking for them. All they hear are insiders fighting for insiders.
These are the forgotten men and women in our society, and they are angry at so much on so many levels. The poverty, the unemployment, the failing schools, the jobs moving to other countries.
I am fighting for these forgotten Americans.
Fourteen months ago, I declared my campaign for the Presidency on the promise to give our government back to the people. Every day since then, I’ve worked to repay the loyalty and the faith that you have put in me.
Every day I think about how much is at stake for this country. This isn’t just the fight of my life, it’s the fight of our lives – together – to save our country.
I refuse to let another generation of American children be excluded from the American Dream. Our whole country loses when young people of limitless potential are denied the opportunity to contribute their talents because we failed to provide them the opportunities they deserved. Let our children be dreamers too.
Our whole country loses every time a kid doesn’t graduate from high school, or fails to enter the workforce or, worse still, is lost to the dreadful world of drugs and crime.
When I look at the failing schools, the terrible trade deals, and the infrastructure crumbling in our inner cities, I know all of this can be fixed - and it can be fixed very quickly.
In the world I come from, if something is broken, you fix it.
If something isn’t working, you replace it.
If a product doesn’t deliver, you make a change.
I have no patience for injustice, no tolerance for government incompetence, no sympathy for leaders who fail their citizens.
That’s why I am running: to end the decades of bitter failure and to offer the American people a new future of honesty, justice and opportunity. A future where America, and its people, always – and I mean always – come first.
Aren’t you tired of a system that gets rich at your expense?
Aren’t you tired of the same old lies and the same old broken promises? And Hillary Clinton has proven to be one of the greatest liars of all time.
Aren’t you tired of arrogant leaders who look down on you, instead of serving and protecting you?
That is all about to change – and it’s about to change soon. We are going to put the American people first again.
I’ve travelled all across this country laying out my bold and modern agenda for change.
In this journey, I will never lie to you. I will never tell you something I do not believe. I will never put anyone’s interests ahead of yours.
And, I will never, ever stop fighting for you.
I have no special interest. I am spending millions of dollars on my own campaign – nobody else is.
My only interest is the American people.
So while sometimes I can be too honest, Hillary Clinton is the exact opposite: she never tells the truth. One lie after another, and getting worse each passing day.
The American people are still waiting for Hillary Clinton to apologize for all of the many lies she’s told to them, and the many times she’s betrayed them.
Tell me, has Hillary Clinton ever apologized for lying about her illegal email server and deleting 33,000 emails?
Has Hillary Clinton apologized for turning the State Department into a pay-for-play operation where favors are sold to the highest bidder?
Has she apologized for lying to the families who lost loved ones at Benghazi?
Has she apologized for putting Iran on the path to nuclear weapons?
Has she apologized for Iraq? For Libya? For Syria? Has she apologized for unleashing ISIS across the world?
Has Hillary Clinton apologized for the decisions she made that have led to so much death, destruction and terrorism?
Speaking of lies, we now know from the State Department announcement that President Obama lied about the $400 million dollars in cash that was flown to Iran. He denied it was for the hostages, but it was. He said we don’t pay ransom, but he did. He lied about the hostages – openly and blatantly – just like he lied about Obamacare.
Now the Administration has put every American travelling overseas, including our military personnel, at greater risk of being kidnapped. Hillary Clinton owns President Obama’s Iran policy, one more reason she can never be allowed to be President.
Let’s talk about the economy. Here, in this beautiful state, so many people have suffered because of NAFTA. Bill Clinton signed the deal, and Hillary Clinton supported it. North Carolina has lost nearly half of its manufacturing jobs since NAFTA went into effect.
Bill Clinton also put China into the World Trade Organization – another Hillary Clinton-backed deal. Your city of Charlotte has lost 1 in 4 manufacturing jobs since China joined the WTO, and many of these jobs were lost while Hillary Clinton was Secretary of State – our chief diplomat with China. She was a disaster, totally unfit for the job.
Hillary Clinton owes the State of North Carolina a very big apology, and I think you’ll get that apology around the same time you’ll get to see her 33,000 deleted emails.
Another major issue in this campaign has been the border. Our open border has allowed drugs and crime and gangs to pour into our communities. So much needless suffering, so much preventable death. I’ve spent time with the families of wonderful Americans whose loved ones were killed by the open borders and Sanctuary Cities that Hillary Clinton supports.
I’ve embraced the crying parents who’ve lost their children to violence spilling across our border. Parents like Laura Wilkerson and Michelle Root and Sabine Durden and Jamiel Shaw whose children were killed by illegal immigrants.
My opponent supports Sanctuary Cities.
But where was the Sanctuary for Kate Steinle? Where was the Sanctuary for the children of Laura, Michelle, Sabine and Jamiel?
Where was the Sanctuary for every other parent who has suffered so horribly?
These moms and dads don’t get a lot of consideration from our politicians. They certainly don’t get apologies. They’ll never even get the time of day from Hillary Clinton.
But they will always come first to me.
Listen closely: we will deliver justice for all of these American Families. We will create a system of immigration that makes us all proud.
Hillary Clinton’s mistakes destroy innocent lives, sacrifice national security, and betray the working families of this country.
Please remember this: I will never put personal profit before national security. I will never leave our border open to appease donors and special interests. I will never support a trade deal that kills American jobs. I will never put the special interests before the national interest. I will never put a donor before a voter, or a lobbyist before a citizen.
Instead, I will be a champion for the people.
The establishment media doesn’t cover what really matters in this country, or what’s really going on in people’s lives. They will take words of mine out of context and spend a week obsessing over every single syllable, and then pretend to discover some hidden meaning in what I said.
Just imagine for a second if the media spent this energy holding the politicians accountable who got innocent Americans like Kate Steinle killed – she was gunned down by an illegal immigrant who had been deported five times.
Just imagine if the media spent time and lots of time investigating the poverty and joblessness of the inner cities. Just think about how much different things would be if the media in this country sent their cameras to our border, to our closing factories, or to our failing schools.
Or if the media focused on what dark streets must be hidden in the 33,000 emails that Hillary Clinton illegally deleted.
Thank you. Instead every story is told from the perspective of the insider. It's the narrative of the people who rig the system, never the voice of the people it's been rigged against. Believe me. So many people suffering for so long in silence. No cameras. No coverage, no outrage from the media class that seems to get outrage over just about everything else. So, again, it's not about me. It's never been about me. It's been about all the people in this country who don't have a voice. I am running to be your voice.
Thank you. I'm running to be the voice for every forgotten part of this country that has been waiting and hoping for a better future.
I am glad that I make the powerful, and I mean very powerful a little uncomfortable now and again, including some of the powerful people, frankly, in my own party because it means that I'm fighting for real change, real change. There is a reason hedge fund managers, the financial lobbyists, the Wall Street investors are throwing their money all over Hillary Clinton because they know she will make sure the system stays rigged in their favor.
It's the powerful protecting the powerful. The insiders fighting for the insiders. I am fighting for you.
Here is the change I propose. On terrorism, we are going to end the era of nation-building and, instead, focus on destroying, destroying, destroying ISIS and radical Islamic terrorism.
We will use military, cyber, and financial warfare and work with any partner in the world and the Middle East that shares our goal in defeating terrorism. I have a message for the terrorists trying to kill our citizens. We will find you, we will destroy you and we will absolutely win and we will win soon.
On immigration, we will temporarily suspend immigration from any place where adequate screening cannot be performed, extreme vetting. Remember, extreme vetting. All applicants for immigration will be vetted for ties to radical ideology. And we will screen out anyone who doesn't share our values and love our people.
Anyone who believes Sharia Law supplants American law will not be given an immigrant visa.
If you want to join our society, then you must embrace our society. Our values, and our tolerant way of life. Those who believe in oppressing women, guys, Hispanics, African-Americans, and people of different faiths are not welcome to join our great country.
We will promote our American values, our American way of life, and our American system of government, which are all, all the best in the world. My opponent on the other hand wants a 550 percent increase in Syrian refugees even more than already pouring into our country under President Obama. Her plan would bring in roughly 620,000 refugees from all refugee sending nations in her first term alone on top of all other immigration. Think of that. Think of that. What are we doing?
Hillary Clinton is running to be America's Angela Merkel and we have seen how much crime and how many problems that's caused the German people and Germany.
We have enough problems already, we do not need more. On crime we're going to add more police, more investigators, and appoint the best judges and prosecutors in the world.
We will pursue strong enforcement of federal laws. The gangs and cartels. And criminal syndicates terrorizing our people will be stripped apart one by one and they will be sent out of our country quickly. Their day is over. And it's going to end very, very fast. Our trade -- thank you. On trade, we're going to renegotiate NAFTA to make it better and if they don't agree, we will withdraw.
And likewise we are going to withdraw from Transpacific Partnership, another disaster.
Stand up to China on our terrible trade agreements and protect every last American job. Hillary Clinton has supported all of the major trade deals that have stripped this country of its jobs and its wealth. We owe $20 trillion. On taxes, we are going to massively cut tax rates for workers and small businesses creating millions of new good paying jobs.
We're going to get rid of regulations that send jobs overseas and we are going to make it easier for young Americans to get the credit they need to start a small business and pursue their dream.
On education, so important, we are going to give students choice and allow charter schools to thrive. We are going to end tenure policies that reward bad teachers and hurt our great, good teachers. My opponent wants to deny student choice and opportunity, all to get a little bit more money from the education bureaucracy. She doesn't care how many young dreams are dashed or destroyed and they are destroyed. Young people are destroyed before they even start. We are going to work closely with African-American parents and children. We are going to work with the parents' students. We are going to work with everybody in the African-American community, in the inner cities, and what a big difference that is going to make. It's one of the things I most look forward to doing.
This means a lot to me and it's going to be a top priority in a Trump administration. On healthcare, we are going to repeal and replace the disaster called ObamaCare. Countless Americans have been forced into part- time jobs, premiums are about to jump by double digits yet again and just this week, ETNA announced it is pulling out of the exchanges all over but also in North Carolina. We are going to replace this disaster with reforms that give you choice and freedom and control in healthcare at a much, much lower cost. You will have much better healthcare at a much lower cost and it will happen quickly.
On political corruption, we are going to restore honor to our government. In my administration, I'm going to enforce all laws concerning the protection of classified information. No one will be above the law. I am going to forbid senior officials from trading favors for cash by preventing them from collecting lavish speaking fees through their spouses when they serve.
I'm going to ask my senior officials to sign an agreement not to accept speaking fees from corporations with a registered lobbyist for five years after leaving office, or from any entity tied to a foreign government.
Finally, we are going to bring our country together. It is so divided. We are going to bring it together. We are going to do it by emphasizing what we all have in common as Americans. We're going to reject bigotry and I will tell you the bigotry of Hillary Clinton is amazing. She sees communities of color only as votes and not as human beings. Worthy of a better future. It's only votes. It is only votes that she sees. And she does nothing about it. She has been there forever and look at where you are. If African-Americans voters give Donald Trump a chance by giving me their vote, the result for them will be amazing.
Look how badly things are going under decades of Democratic leadership. Look at the schools. Look at the poverty. Look at the 58 percent of young African-Americans not working. Fifty eight percent. It is it is time for a change. What do you have to lose by trying something new? I will fix it watch, I will fix it. We have nothing to lose. Nothing to lose. It is so bad. The inner cities are so bad, you have nothing to lose. They have been playing with you for 60, 70, 80 years, many, many decades. You have nothing to lose. I will do a great job.
This means so much to me. And I will work as hard as I can to bring new opportunity to places in our country which have not known it in a very, very long time. Hillary Clinton and the Democratic Party have taken African-American votes totally for granted. Because the votes have been automatically there for them, there has been no reason for Democrats to produce, and they haven't. They haven't produced in decades and decades. It's time to break with the failures of the past and to fight for every last American child in this country to have a better and a much, much brighter future.
In my administration every American will be treated equally, protected equally and honored equally. We will reject bigotry and hatred and oppression in all of its forms and seek a new future built on our common culture and values as one American people.
This is the change I am promising to all of you, an honest government, a great economy, and a just society for each and every American.
But we can never ever fix our problems by relying on the same politicians who created these problems in the first place. Can't do it. Seventy two percent of voters say our country is on the wrong track. I am the change candidate. Hillary Clinton is for the failed status quo to protect her special interests, her donors, her lobbyists, and others. It is time to vote for a new American future. Together, we will make America strong again. We will make America proud again, we will make America safe again. Friends and fellow citizens, come November, we will make America great again. Greater than ever before. Thank you, thank you. And God bless you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much.
Mr. Secretary General, Mr. President, world leaders, and distinguished delegates, welcome to New York. It is a profound honor to stand here in my home city as a representative of the American people to address the people of the world. As millions of our citizens continue to suffer the effects of the devastating hurricanes that have struck our country, I want to begin by expressing my appreciation to every leader in this room who has offered assistance and aid. The American people are strong and resilient, and they will emerge from these hardships more determined than ever before.
Fortunately, the United States has done very well since Election Day last November 8. The stock market is at an all-time high, a record. Unemployment is at its lowest level in 16 years, and because of our regulatory and other reforms, we have more people working in the United States today than ever before. Companies are moving back, creating job growth, the likes of which our country has not seen in a very long time, and it has just been announced that we will be spending almost $700 billion on our military and defense. Our military will soon be the strongest it has ever been. For more than 70 years, in times of war and peace, the leaders of nations, movements, and religions have stood before this assembly.
Like them, I intend to address some of the very serious threats before us today, but also the enormous potential waiting to be unleashed. We live in a time of extraordinary opportunity. Breakthroughs in science, technology, and medicine are curing illnesses and solving problems that prior generations thought impossible to solve. But each day also brings news of growing dangers that threaten everything we cherish and value. Terrorists and extremists have gathered strength and spread to every region of the planet. Rogue regimes represented in this body not only support terror but threaten other nations and their own people with the most destructive weapons known to humanity.
Authority and authoritarian powers seek to collapse the values, the systems, and alliances, that prevented conflict and tilted the word toward freedom since World War II. International criminal networks traffic drugs, weapons, people, force dislocation and mass migration, threaten our borders and new forms of aggression exploit technology to menace our citizens. To put it simply, we meet at a time of both immense promise and great peril. It is entirely up to us whether we lift the world to new heights or let it fall into a valley of disrepair. We have it in our power, should we so choose, to lift millions from poverty, to help our citizens realize their dreams, and to ensure that new generations of children are raised free from violence, hatred, and fear.
This institution was founded in the aftermath of two world wars, to help shape this better future. It was based on the vision that diverse nations could cooperate to protect their sovereignty, preserve their security, and promote their prosperity. It was in the same period exactly 70 years ago that the United States developed the Marshall Plan to help restore Europe. Those these beautiful pillars, they are pillars of peace, sovereignty, security, and prosperity. The Marshall Plan was built on the noble idea that the whole world is safer when nations are strong, independent, and free. As president, Truman said in his message to Congress at that time, our support of European recovery is in full accord with our support of the United Nations.
The success of the United Nations depends upon the independent strength of its members. To overcome the perils of the present, and to achieve the promise of the future, we must begin with the wisdom of the past. Our success depends on a coalition of strong and independent nations that embrace their sovereignty, to promote security, prosperity, and peace, for themselves and for the world. We do not expect diverse countries to share the same cultures, traditions, or even systems of government, but we do expect all nations to uphold these two core sovereign duties, to respect the interests of their own people and the rights of every other sovereign nation.
This is the beautiful vision of this institution, and this is the foundation for cooperation and success. Strong sovereign nations let diverse countries with different values, different cultures, and different dreams not just coexist, but work side by side on the basis of mutual respect. Strong sovereign nations let their people take ownership of the future and control their own destiny. And strong sovereign nations allow individuals to flourish in the fullness of the life intended by God. In America, we do not seek to impose our way of life on anyone, but rather to let it shine as an example for everyone to watch.
This week gives our country a special reason to take pride in that example. We are celebrating the 230th anniversary of our beloved Constitution, the oldest constitution still in use in the world today. This timeless document has been the foundation of peace, prosperity, and freedom for the Americans and for countless millions around the globe whose own countries have found inspiration in its respect for human nature, human dignity, and the rule of law. The greatest in the United States Constitution is its first three beautiful words. They are "We the people." Generations of Americans have sacrificed to maintain the promise of those words, the promise of our country and of our great history.
In America, the people govern, the people rule, and the people are sovereign. I was elected not to take power, but to give power to the American people where it belongs. In foreign affairs, we are renewing this founding principle of sovereignty. Our government's first duty is to its people, to our citizens, to serve their needs, to ensure their safety, to preserve their rights, and to defend their values. As president of the United States, I will always put America first. Just like you, as the leaders of your countries, will always and should always put your countries first.
All responsible leaders have an obligation to serve their own citizens, and the nation state remains the best vehicle for elevating the human condition. But making a better life for our people also requires us to with work together in close harmony and unity, to create a more safe and peaceful future for all people.
The United States will forever be a great friend to the world and especially to its allies. But we can no longer be taken advantage of or enter into a one-sided deal where the United States gets nothing in return. As long as I hold this office, I will defend America's interests above all else, but in fulfilling our obligations to our nations, we also realize that it's in everyone's interests to seek the future where all nations can be sovereign, prosperous, and secure.
America does more than speak for the values expressed in the United Nations charter. Our citizens have paid the ultimate price to defend our freedom and the freedom of many nations represented in this great hall. America's devotion is measured on the battlefields where our young men and women have fought and sacrificed alongside of our allies. From the beaches of Europe to the deserts of the Middle East to the jungles of Asia, it is an eternal credit to the American character that even after we and our allies emerge victorious from the bloodiest war in history, we did not seek territorial expansion or attempt to oppose and impose our way of life on others. Instead, we helped build institutions such as this one to defend the sovereignty, security, and prosperity for all. For the diverse nations of the world, this is our hope.
We want harmony and friendship, not conflict and strife. We are guided by outcomes, not ideologies. We have a policy of principled realism, rooted in shared goal, interests, and values. That realism forces us to confront the question facing every leader and nation in this room, it is a question we cannot escape or avoid. We will slide down the path of complacency, numb to the challenges, threats, and even wars that we face, or do we have enough strength and pride to confront those dangers today so that our citizens can enjoy peace and prosperity tomorrow.
If we desire to lift up our citizens, if we aspire to the approval of history, then we must fulfill our sovereign duties to the people we faithfully represent. We must protect our nations, their interests and their futures. We must reject threats to sovereignty from the Ukraine to the South China Sea. We must uphold respect for law, respect for borders, and respect for culture, and the peaceful engagement these allow.
And just as the founders of this body intended, we must work together and confront together those who threatens us with chaos, turmoil, and terror. The score of our planet today is small regimes that violate every principle that the United Nations is based. They respect neither their own citizens nor the sovereign rights of their countries. If the righteous many do not confront the wicked few, then evil will triumph. When decent people and nations become bystanders to history, the forces of destruction only gather power and strength.
No one has shown more contempt for other nations and for the well-being of their own people than the depraved regime in North Korea. It is responsible for the starvation deaths of millions of North Koreans. And for the imprisonment, torture, killing, and oppression of countless more. We were all witness to the regime's deadly abuse when an innocent American college student, Otto Warmbier, was returned to America, only to die a few days later.
We saw it in the assassination of the dictator's brother, using banned nerve agents in an international airport. We know it kidnapped a sweet 13-year-old Japanese girl from a beach in her own country, to enslave her as a language tutor for North Korea's spies. If this is not twisted enough, now North Korea's reckless pursuit of nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles threatens the entire world with unthinkable loss of human life. It is an outrage that some nations would not only trade with such a regime, but would arm, supply, and financially support a country that imperils the world with nuclear conflict.
No nation on Earth has an interest in seeing this band of criminals arm itself with nuclear weapons and missiles. The United States has great strength and patience, but if it is forced to defend itself or its allies, we will have no choice but to totally destroy North Korea. Rocket Man is on a suicide mission for himself and for his regime. The United States is ready, willing, and able, but hopefully this will not be necessary. That's what the United Nations is all about. That's what the United Nations is for. Let's see how they do.
It is time for North Korea to realize that the denuclearization is its only acceptable future. The United Nations Security Council recently held two unanimous 15-0 votes adopting hard-hitting resolutions against North Korea, and I want to thank China and Russia for joining the vote to impose sanctions, along with all of the other members of the Security Council. Thank you to all involved. But we must do much more.
It is time for all nations to work together to isolate the Kim regime until it ceases its hostile behavior. We face this decision not only in North Korea; it is far past time for the nations of the world to confront another reckless regime, one that speaks openly of mass murder, vowing death to America, destruction to Israel, and ruin for many leaders and nations in this room.
The Iranian government masks a corrupt dictatorship behind the false guise of a democracy. It has turned a wealthy country, with a rich history and culture, into an economically depleted rogue state whose chief exports are violence, bloodshed, and chaos. The longest-suffering victims of Iran's leaders are, in fact, its own people. Rather than use its resources to improve Iranian live, its oil profits go to fund Hezbollah and other terrorists that kill innocent Muslims and attack their peaceful Arab and Israeli neighbors.
This wealth, which rightly belongs to Iran's people, also goes to shore up Bashar al-Assad's dictatorship, fuel Yemen's civil war, and undermine peace throughout the entire Middle East. We cannot let a murderous regime continue these destabilizing activities while building dangerous missiles, and we cannot abide by an agreement if it provides cover for the eventual construction of a nuclear program. The Iran deal was one of the worst and most one-sided transactions the United States has ever entered into. Frankly, that deal is an embarrassment to the United States, and I don't think you've heard the last of it. Believe me.
It is time for the entire world to join us in demanding that Iran's government end its pursuit of death and destruction. It is time for the regime to free all Americans and citizens of other nations that they have unjustly detained. Above all, Iran's government must stop supporting terrorists, begin serving its own people, and respect the sovereign rights of its neighbors. The entire world understands that the good people of Iran want change, and, other than the vast military power of the United States, that Iran's people are what their leaders fear the most. This is what causes the regime to restrict internet access, tear down satellite dishes, shoot unarmed student protesters, and imprison political reformers.
Oppressive regimes cannot endure forever, and the day will come when the people will face a choice. Will they continue down the path of poverty, bloodshed, and terror, or will the Iranian people return to the nation's proud roots as a center of civilization, culture, and wealth, where their people can be happy and prosperous once again? The Iranian regime's support for terror is in stark contrast to the recent commitments of many of its neighbors to fight terrorism and halt its finance, and in Saudi Arabia early last year, I was greatly honored to address the leaders of more than 50 Arab and Muslim nations. We agreed that all responsible nations must work together to confront terrorists and the Islamic extremism that inspires them.
We will stop radical islamic terrorism because we cannot allow it to tear up our nation and, indeed, to tear up the entire world. We must deny the terrorists safe haven, transit, funding, and any form of support for their vile and sinister ideology. We must drive them out of our nation. It is time to expose and hold responsible those countries whose support and fi — who support and finance terror groups like al-Qaeda, Hezbollah, the Taliban, and others that slaughter innocent people.
The United States and our allies are working together throughout the Middle East to crush the loser terrorists and stop the reemergence of safe havens they use to launch attacks on all of our people. Last month I announced a new strategy for victory in the fight against this evil in Afghanistan. From now on, our security interests will dictate the length and scope of military operation, not arbitrary benchmarks and timetables set up by politicians. I have also totally changed the rules of engagement in our fight against the Taliban and other terrorist groups.
In Syria and Iraq, we have made big gains toward lasting defeat of ISIS. In fact, our country has achieved more against ISIS in the last eight months than it has in many, many years combined. We seek the deescalation of the Syrian conflict, and a political solution that honors the will of the Syrian people. The actions of the criminal regime of Bashar al-Assad, including the use of chemical weapons against his own citizens, even innocent children, shock the conscience of every decent person. No society could be safe if banned chemical weapons are allowed to spread. That is why the United States carried out a missile strike on the airbase that launched the attack.
We appreciate the efforts of the United Nations agencies that are providing vital humanitarian assistance in areas liberated from ISIS, and we especially thank Jordan, Turkey, and Lebanon for their role in hosting refugees from the Syrian conflict. The United States is a compassionate nation and has spent billions and billions of dollars in helping to support this effort. We seek an approach to refugee resettlement that is designed to help these horribly treated people and which enables their eventual return to their home countries to be part of the rebuilding process. For the cost of resettling one refugee in the United States, we can assist more than 10 in their home region.
Out of the goodness of our hearts, we offer financial assistance to hosting countries in the region and we support recent agreements of the G20 nations that will seek to host refugees as close to their home countries as possible. This is the safe, responsible, and humanitarian approach. For decades the United States has dealt with migration challenges here in the Western Hemisphere.
We have learned that over the long term, uncontrolled migration is deeply unfair to both the sending and the receiving countries. For the sending countries, it reduces domestic pressure to pursue needed political and economic reform and drains them of the human capital necessary to motivate and implement those reforms. For the receiving countries, the substantial costs of uncontrolled migration are born overwhelmingly by low-income citizens whose concerns are often ignored by both media and government.
I want to salute the work of the United Nations in seeking to address the problems that cause people to flee from their home. The United Nations and African Union led peacekeeping missions to have invaluable contributions in stabilizing conflict in Africa. The United States continues to lead the world in humanitarian assistance, including famine prevention and relief, in South Sudan, Somalia, and northern Nigeria and Yemen.
We have invested in better health and opportunity all over the world through programs like PEPFAR, which funds AIDS relief, the President’s Malaria Initiative, the Global Health Security Agenda, the Global Fund to End Modern Slavery, and the Women Entrepreneur's Finance Initiative, part of our commitment to empowering women all across the globe.
We also thank — we also thank the secretary general for recognizing that the United Nations must reform if it is to be an effective partner in confronting threats to sovereignty, security, and prosperity. Too often the focus of this organization has not been on results, but on bureaucracy and process. In some cases, states that seek to subvert this institution's noble end have hijacked the very systems that are supposed to advance them. For example, it is a massive source of embarrassment to the United Nations that some governments with egregious human rights records sit on the UN Human Rights Council.
The United States is one out of 193 countries in the United Nations, and yet we pay 22 percent of the entire budget and more. In fact, we pay far more than anybody realizes. The United States bears an unfair cost burden, but to be fair, if it could actually accomplish all of its stated goals, especially the goal of peace, this investment would easily be well worth it. Major portions of the world are in conflict, and some, in fact, are going to hell, but the powerful people in this room, under the guidance and auspices of the United Nations, can solve many of these vicious and complex problems. The American people hope that one day soon the United Nations can be a much more accountable and effective advocate for human dignity and freedom around the world.
In the meantime, we believe that no nation should have to bear a disproportionate share of the burden, militarily or financially. Nations of the world must take a greater role in promoting secure and prosperous societies in their own region. That is why in the Western Hemisphere the United States has stood against the corrupt, destabilizing regime in Cuba and embraced the enduring dream of the Cuban people to live in freedom.
My administration recently announced that we will not lift sanctions on the Cuban government until it makes fundamental reforms. We have also imposed tough calibrated sanctions on the socialist Maduro regime in Venezuela, which has brought a once thriving nation to the brink of total collapse. The socialist dictatorship of Nicolás Maduro has inflicted terrible pain and suffering on the good people of that country.
This corrupt regime destroyed a prosperous nation — prosperous nation, by imposing a failed ideology that has produced poverty and misery everywhere it has been tried. To make matters worse, Maduro has defied his own people, stealing power from their elected representatives, to preserve his disastrous rule. The Venezuelan people are starving, and their country is collapsing. Their democratic institutions are being destroyed. The situation is completely unacceptable, and we cannot stand by and watch.
As a responsible neighbor and friend, we and all others have a goal — that goal is to help them regain their freedom, recover their country, and restore their democracy. I would like to thank leaders in this room for condemning the regime and providing vital support to the Venezuelan people. The United States has taken important steps to hold the regime accountable. We are prepared to take further action if the government of Venezuela persists on its path to impose authoritarian rule on the Venezuelan people.
We are fortunate to have incredibly strong and healthy trade relationships with many of the Latin American countries gathered here today. Our economic bond forms a critical foundation for advancing peace and prosperity for all of our people and all of our neighbors. I ask every country represented here today to be prepared to do more to address this very real crisis. We call for the full restoration of democracy and political freedoms in Venezuela. The problem in Venezuela is not that socialism has been poorly implemented, but that socialism has been faithfully implemented.
From the Soviet Union to Cuba to Venezuela, wherever true socialism or communism has been adopted, it has delivered anguish and devastation and failure. Those who preach the tenets of these discredited ideologies only contribute to the continued suffering of the people who live under these cruel systems. America stands with every person living under a brutal regime. Our respect for sovereignty is also a call for action. All people deserve a government that cares for their safety, their interests, and their well-being, including their prosperity. In America, we seek stronger ties of business and trade with all nations of goodwill, but this trade must be fair and it must be reciprocal.
For too long the American people were told that mammoth, multinational trade deals, unaccountable international tribunals, and powerful global bureaucracies were the best way to promote their success. But as those promises flowed, millions of jobs vanished and thousands of factories disappeared. Others gamed the system and broke the rules, and our great middle class, once the bedrock of American prosperity, was forgotten and left behind, but they are forgotten no more and they will never be forgotten again.
While America will pursue cooperation and commerce with other nations, we are renewing our commitment to the first duty of every government, the duty of our citizens. This bond is the source of America's strength and that of every responsible nation represented here today. If this organization is to have any hope of successfully confronting the challenges before us, it will depend, as President Truman said some 70 years ago, on the independent strength of its members.
If we are to embrace the opportunities of the future and overcome the present dangers together, there can be no substantive for strong, sovereign, and independent nations, nations that are rooted in the histories and invested in their destiny, nations that seek allies to befriend, not enemies to conquer, and most important of all, nations that are home to men and women who are willing to sacrifice for their countries, their fellow citizens, and for all that is best in the human spirit.
In remembering the great victory that led to this body's founding, we must never forget that those heroes who fought against evil, also fought for the nations that they love. Patriotism led the Poles to die to save Poland, the French to fight for a free France, and the Brits to stand strong for Britain. Today, if we do not invest ourselves, our hearts, our minds, and our nations, if we will not build strong families, safe communities, and healthy societies for ourselves, no one can do it for us.
This is the ancient wish of every people and the deepest yearning that lives inside every sacred soul. So let this be our mission, and let this be our message to the world. We will fight together, sacrifice together, and stand together for peace, for freedom, for justice, for family, for humanity, and for the almighty God who made us all. Thank you, God bless you, God bless the nations of the world, and God bless the United States of America. Thank you very much.
Wouldn’t you love to see one of these NFL owners, when somebody disrespects our flag, to say, “Get that son of a bitch off the field right now. Out. He’s fired. He’s fired!” You know, some owner is going to do that. He’s going to say, “That guy that disrespects our flag, he’s fired.” And that owner, they don’t know it. They don’t know it. They’ll be the most popular person, for a week. They’ll be the most popular person in this country.
When the NFL ratings are down massively, massively. The NFL ratings are down massively. Now the number one reason happens to be they like watching what’s happening… with yours truly. They like what’s happening. Because you know today if you hit too hard—15 yards! Throw him out of the game! They had that last week. I watched for a couple of minutes. Two guys, just really beautiful tackle. Boom, 15 yards! The referee gets on television, his wife is sitting at home, she’s so proud of him. They’re ruining the game! They’re ruining the game. That’s what they want to do. They want to hit! It is hurting the game.
But you know what’s hurting the game more than that? When people like yourselves turn on television and you see those people taking the knee when they are playing our great national anthem. The only thing you could do better is if you see it, even if it’s one player, leave the stadium, I guarantee things will stop. Things will stop. Just pick up and leave. Pick up and leave. Not the same game anymore, anyway.
